 Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924052956806 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




3 1924 052 956 806 



PAGES FROM THE 

DIARY OF A MILITANT 

SUFFRAGETTE 



By 
KATHERINE ROBERTS 



LETCHWORTH AND LONDON : 
GARDEN CITY PRESS LIMITED, PRINTERS 







DEDICATED 



TO 



THE BRAVE WOMEN WHO TO-DAY 
ARE FIGHTING FOR FREEDOM 



PROLOGUE 

THE PRISON 

And I saw a gaol lifting its grimy walls to 
heaven. And they that passed by looked at it 
askance, for they said : " It is the abode of Sin." 

And to them the broad sky and all the earth was 
fair to look upon, for they saw the early buds 
opening, and heard the birds that had come back 
from the south, and they felt the sun which was 
new warming the hearts of beast and plant. 

But within the prison, and behind its cold, thick 
buttresses, and its small, round, triple-barred 
windows, that looked like tunnels, they heard faint 
groanings and sighings and much lamentation, and 
they said : " It is most just, for it is the abode of 
Sin." 

And I heard a voice saying : " Woe to the cause 
that hath not passed through a prison ! " 

And I looked again, and I saw in the gaol those 
deliverers who in each age have saved the world 
from itself, and set it free, and gyves were on their 
wrists and ankles. 

And I saw Israel in the house of bondage before 
it came forth to preserve Duty for mankind. 

Woe to the cause that hath not passed through 
a prison! 

And I saw the Praetorian Hall and One that was 
bound therein, and the soldiers bowed the knee 
before Him and mocked Him, and then led Him 
away to proclaim Love to the world. 

Woe to the cause that hath not passed through 
a prison! 



iv Prologue 

And I saw within the gaol them that gave liberty 
to the slave, and them that unbound the mind of 
man, and them that strove to free his conscience, 
and them that led onward to Freedom, and Justice, 
and Love. 

Woe to the cause that hath not passed through 
a prison! 

And I saw also, those in our own time who have 
counted themselves as nothing if they could but 
point out God's way unto their brethren; and there 
were many, too, of the prophets who are still to 
come, and these were also in bonds. 

Woe to the cause that hath not passed through 
a prison! 

And lo ! the sky became clouded, and night fell, 
and there were no birds nor blossoms, but a chill 
came upon the earth, and they that passed by 
shivered and trembled; and I beheld, and saw that 
they were not men, but that they were really 
wolves, and apes, and swine. 

And within the gaol was a great light, and a 
pleasant warmth came from the barred windows; 
and I heard a burst, of triumphant song. 

And the gyves fell from the limbs of the 
prisoners, and there was great joy. 

And they that passed by would come in,, but 
they could not; and now within was freedom, and 
without was captivity. 

And the hosts within held up their arms, and 
the marks of their shackles were upon them. 

But I hid my hands behind me^ for there was no 
mark on my -wrists. 

Woe to the cause that hath not passed through 
a prison! Ernest Crosby. 



PAGES FROM THE DIARY OF 
A MILITANT SUFFRAGETTE 

February 4TH, 1909 

While I was out this morning doing some shop- 
ping, I met a Suffragette! It is the first time 
that I have seen one, owing to the fact that I have 
been living abroad; but, of course, I have read 
about them in the papers. This one was not one 
bit like what I should have expected. 

Obviously a lady, and most becomingly dressed 
in a white costume with a green hat, and wearing a 
large bunch of violets at her waist, she was stand- 
ing at a corner of the street in the busiest part of 
the town endeavouring to sell papers to the 
passers-by. 

" She's a Suffragette," said a small boy beside 
me, in tones of contemptuous scorn, to a still 
smaller companion. 

There was a slight drizzle of rain, and I noticed 
that most of the people to whom she offered the 
paper brushed it angrily on one side and walked 
on. Being greatly impressed by her cheerful 
indifference alike to the state of the weather and 
the attitude of the public, and marvelling much 
that any woman should have so much moral 
courage, I paused for a moment to look at her. 



2 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

Instantly she walked up to me. " You are 
wearing our colours," she said, smiling; " Are you 
interested in our Cause?" 

I happened to have on a green coat and skirt 
with a white blouse and a purple motor scarf. 
" What are your colours .''" I asked. 

"White, Purple, and Green. They stand for 
purity, courage, and faith." 

" I did not know," I replied; " and I am not 
particularly interested in the Cause. However, I 
am extremely interested in you. I want to know 
why you are doing this. I would not be in your 
place for thousands of pounds." 

The Suffragette laughed. " Will you buy one 
of our papers ?" she suggested. " When you have 
read it you will understand why. Later on per- 
haps you will be doing it yourself." 

" Never," I replied, " that I can guarantee; 
but I will buy a paper." 

On my return home I read it straight through 
with the greatest interest. It is a weekly paper, 
called Votes for Women, and costs one penny. I 
have said for years that women ought to be allowed 
to vote if they want to, just as I think they should 
do any other thing they like, if they are able to. 
It is ridiculous to debar a person from any sort of 
profession or occupation, which she is capable of 
pursuing, simply because she happens to be a 
woman, as if that in itself were any disqualification; 
but what I fail to understand is why they want a 
vote. Personally I have no desire for one, and can- 
not see what advantage it would be. However, there 
must be some reason, so I have decided to investi- 
gate the subject without further delay. I see in 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 3 

this paper that there are weekly At Homes here, 
so I shall certainly go to the next one, and hear for 
myself their side of the story. 

February 6th. 

I managed to find my way to the Suffragettes' 
At Home this afternoon, and am extremely glad 
that I did so. I have never heard such good 
speeches, or been so much entertained before. It 
is not my intention to write a dissertation on 
Woman's Suffrage, but I wish to record in my 
diary the fact that I have made three discoveries 
to-day. 

(i) That this is not a sex war. The women 
who are members of this Union have no desire, 
I find, to neglect their homes, or to become like 
men; they are simply fighting against an over- 
whelming force of prejudice to bring in what to 
them seems the biggest reform of modern times. 
Moreover, I am convinced that they will succeed, 
because they are fighting with the weapons of 
loyalty, faith, and love for humanity, and the best 
men in the country are on their side. They 
realise, as Tennyson has said, that 

" Woman's cause is man's ; they rise or sink 
Together, dwarfed or godlike, bond or free." 

(2) I have discovered why they want the vote. 
They look upon it merely as a symbol of citizen- 
ship — in other words a latchkey, which will open 
a very big door. It seems a small and insignifi- 
cant thing — a latchkey — but when one considers 
that there is no other way of getting into one's 
house, i.e., of bringing in certain reforms, which. 



4 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

in their opinion, are of vital importance to women, 
except through political power, one begins to 
understand why they go through so much to get it. 

My third discovery is that I have been a Mili- 
tant Suffragette all my life and never realised the 
fact until just now. 

It was not only the extremely clever speeches 
which impressed me to-day, but the personality of 
the women who constituted the audience. I 
talked to several while we were having tea, and 
before leaving the hall I joined the Union as a 
member. 

" I want very much to help you," I said to the 
girl who was in charge of the membership cards, 
" but I am afraid that I shall be of no use." 

" We all feel like that at first," she replied; 
" but there is a great deal that you can do. For 
instance, there is a bye-election next week. 
Workers are badly wanted. If you will come to 
our Committee Room on Monday, the Organiser, 
Miss M., will find plenty for you to do," and she 
gave me the address. She then introduced me to 
a sweet-looking girl who was buying some litera- 
ture at a large table in a corner. 

" This is Miss E.," she said; " she has been in 
prison." 

I looked with interest at the ex-prisoner. She 
seemed so fragile and dainty that I could not pic- 
ture her fighting with a policeman. 

"Why were you imprisoned.?" I inquired; 
" What had you done .?" 

" I am sorry to be so uninteresting, but as a 
matter of fact I did absolutely nothing. I was 
walking in one of the deputations to the House of 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 5 

Commons, when I met rows of policemen, who 
refused to let me pass. When I tried to push 
through, a man in the crowd struck me, and then 
two of the policemen arrested me. The charge 
brought against me was that I had assaulted the 
police." 

I could not help smiling. " Was it very bad in 
HoUoway.'"' I asked. 

She laughed lightly. " I did rather miss my 
hot water bottle," she admitted; " the cells are not 
kept too warm. I am quite ready to go back, 
however, if I am wanted. The worst thing of all, 
really," she added, seriously, "is the opposition one 
has to contend with from one's friends. I know 
that many more women would volunteer if they 
could give a nom de plume, and feel sure of not 
being found out by angry relatives. It would not 
be quite playing the game, though, and one does 
want to stand by these women openly." 

" My difficulty," explained a woman who was 
sitting alongside us, " is that I have got a baby of 
ten months old. I really do not feel that I ought to 
leave him for a month. I should not be able to 
get even a line all that time, telling me how he 
was." 

" Your duty is with the baby, of course," we 
both exclaimed together. " That is quite clear. 
There are plenty of others who can go to prison." 

" The fact of the matter is," observed another 
woman, who was selling the literature, " that in 
this country women are oversexed. I come from 
Australia, where there is adult suffrage, and what 
struck me most when I came over here was the 
different attitude of men towards women. Out 



6 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

there it seems quite natural that men and women 
should walk together to the polling booths to 
register their votes. In every way there is much 
more comradeship and equality between them. I 
wonder how long it will take to make people 
realise that the right to vote is not a question of 
sex but of ability." 

" Exactly," said the ex-prisoner. " If in order 
to be qualified as a voter it were necessary to possess 
a certain income, or to pass a stiff examination, or 
something of that sort, we should not mind being 
too stupid to vote or too poor. What we resent is 
that sex should alone be held as a disqualification; 
coupled with crime and insanity, it is a poor com- 
pliment to womanhood." 

I have bought a good deal of the literature 
which I intend to read during my leisure moments, 
and meanwhile I shall go to this committee-room 
on Monday, and see what there is to be done. 

February 8th. 

Immediately after breakfast, this morning I 
went to the Suffragette's committee-room. They 
have taken a shop in the central part of the town, 
and decorated it beautifully with purple, white, 
and green flags. On a counter I saw piles of 
leaflets, pamphlets and Suffragette literature, also 
very pretty little brooches in the colours, one of 
which I bought and intend always to wear. 

The organiser was there, busily arranging the 
leaflets, and apparently quite oblivious of the fact 
that a crowd of small boys kept opening the door 
and throwing things in. She looked up to ask me 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette y 

if I woixld take a bundle of the pamphlets and 
distribute them to passers-by in the street. I pro- 
mised that I would, but asked her first if she would 
explain to me clearly what the militant methods 
consisted in, as I felt a little ignorant about it, and 
might be questioned. 

She did so in a very few words. 

"(i) We go in deputations to the Prime Minis- 
ter. Men do so constantly, and are received; but 
in every case where women go, they are refused, 
and when they persist, are arrested. 

" (2) We interrupt Cabinet Ministers' speeches 
by asking for an answer to our question. This 
policy was started because in the first place two 
girls asked this question most constitutionally in 
question time and were thrown out of the hall. It 
seems to me obvious that when our petitions are 
overlooked and oxir deputations not received, the 
only possible thing left for us to do is to ask our 
question at a public meeting. When one reflects 
further that men constantly heckle and interrupt 
political speeches with impunity, although the con- 
stitutional weapon of the vote is not denied to 
them, one begins to realise the importance of 
securing political power. 

" (3) We work against the Government at bye- 
elections. This serves a double purpose : that of 
reducing the enormous majority of the Liberals, 
and at the same time of educating the people to 
the real meaning of this agitation. 

" Two more questions I want to ask you," I 
said, " and then I will go out and distribute these 
leaflets. (i) Have any of the women thrown 



8 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

stones, thus endangering life ? (2) Why did two 
Suffragettes chain themselves to railings?" 

The organiser smiled. "The reason that the 
women chained themselves to the railing was in 
order to be heard when they made their protest. 
Finding that as soon as they began to speak they 
were seized and roughly thrown out of the hall, 
they determined that when next they spoke the 
audience would have a chance of hearing what it 
was they were asking for. Accordingly, they 
took chains which they passed round their waists 
and through the railings, and having padlocked 
them, the stewards were unable for some time to 
release them. The women did this at very great 
risk to themselves, but in the short time thus 
gained, they made a most effective protest and con- 
verted a considerable number of people to the 
cause. As regards your other question, two girls 
did throw stones once. They were young, and 
carried away by the injustice and insolence of Mr. 
Asquith's attitude towards Woman's Suffrage, 
they threw two stones at the kitchen window of 
his house in Downing Street, as a political protest. 
They were careful to hurt no one, and the sentence 
they got was two months in the second division, 
without the option of a fine; yet for days after- 
wards women kept coming to us saying they 
wished to resign their membership on account of 
the fact that violence was being resorted to ! That 
is what the Government is relying on," she added, 
thoughtfully, " that women, as a whole, are so 
opposed to violence." 

Having satisfied myself on these points, I col- 
lected my bundle of papers and went out, not 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 9 

without many misgivings. As I stepped into the 
street an interested crowd surrounded me. 

" Here you are, Miss, here's a young man what 
will vote for you," called out a boy; while others 
shouted: "Here's a Suffragette! Votes for 
Women ! " 

The first man to whom I handed a leaflet tore it 
in pieces and threw it on the ground at my feet. 
I shall always be grateful to him for having done 
that. It was just what I needed to give me 
courage. Instantly all sense of nervousness left 
me, and I was conscious only of a feeling of in- 
dignation that any man should dare thus to treat 
the question of women desiring to be counted as 
citizens. I walked on, handing the papers to 
everyone I met; occasionally stopping to discuss 
the subject or to defend the methods. On the 
whole, though trying to the nerves, it is interest- 
ing work, and as an opportunity for studying 
types of humanity almost unique. 

One man came up to say that he thought we 
were very brave to fight for the vote as we were 
doing, and that he admired our pluck. I did not 
mention that one week ago I had not even met a 
Suffragette. 

When I had finally disposed of all my literature, 
I returned to the committee room, where I found 
several women discussing the work for next day. 
I have volunteered my services for three hours to- 
morrow. I am not exactly looking forward to it, 
but one must do something. 

February iith. 
Thank goodness, there are only two more days 



lo Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragdite 

before the polling takes place. Not that I mind 
this work nearly so much now, but it is very tiring, 
and the weather has been horrible. Besides dis- 
tributing the leaflets in various localities, I have 
assisted at several open-air meetings. This is 
what happens : The speaker arranges to hold a 
meeting in some convenient place for working 
men, either outside a factory or distillery, during 
their dinner hour or out in the street, in the 
evening. 

She hires a lorry to serve as a platform, and 
'hitherto my part in the programme has consisted 
in accompanying her to the place and walking 
about among the crowd, handing leaflets, selling 
the Votes for Women paper, and discussing the 
subject with questioners. It is quite wonderful 
how the attitude of the public has altered within 
the last few days, since the open-air meetings 
began. Crowds of interested men surround the 
lorry, listening attentively, and asking intelligent 
questions. Instead of telling us to go home and 
look after the baby, they now ask whether we will 
vote Tory, whether working women will get the 
vote, and so on. 

It is a little difficult to make them understand 
why we oppose the Liberal candidate, irrespective 
of his views with regard to women's suffrage. 
One man called out : " You should be working for 
the Tory this time, miss; he's in favour of votes 
for women, and the Liberal isn't. You don't know 
what you are doing." It takes them some time to 
grasp how little the pledges of private Members 
count as against the opposition of the Government 
to which they belong, and that our fight is against 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 1 1 

the Government in power until we are enfran- 
chised, and not a party question at all. 

" Look here, miss," said one loafer, addressing 
me; " if we gives you this vote, what are you 
going to do for us ? " One would have supposed 
from his tone that the vote was a thing he had in 
his pocket, and could hand to me if I made it 
worth his while. 

" When we get the vote," I replied, " we shall 
do as much for you as you are doing for us now; 
we shall look after ourselves." 

" You can do that well enough without the 
vote, it seems to me," put in a man, who had 
strolled up. " You have plenty of indirect 
influence." 

" Which would you rather have, direct or in- 
direct influence ? " I asked. 

" Direct, of course," he replied, promptly. 

" Well, so would I." 

" Women are different," he explained, and I 
think he felt that he had logically settled the 
question. 

Among other things, we have been asking the 
electors to sign post-cards, addressed to Mr. 
Asquith, informing him that although they are 
Liberal, and have always voted Liberal, they are 
voting against the Liberal candidate this time, on 
account of the way the Government has failed to 
carry out Liberal principles, in its treatment of 
women, and a great many have done so. 

I am beginning to understand why the cause has 
been so enormously helped by the fact that nearly 
four hundred women have gone to prison for it. 
Whatever fashionable women may imagine about 



12 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

prison in the second division, to these working 
people it is evidently a stern reality. They know 
what it means, and they realise perfectly that the 
women, most of them ladies by birth, who went there 
must have had some very strong reason for doing 
so. When they find that it was with a view to 
securing political power for the protection of the 
working women, and remember what they did 
themselves, in order to procure the vote, their 
attitude towards the question alters entirely. 

I mentioned this to the organiser as I was leaving 
the Committee Room to-day. " It has helped 
more than anything else," she assented. 

" I do hope," said a lady, who came in at that 
moment, " that a deputation will not go from here. 
I should feel so ashamed not to go with them." 

" Then why not go ? " I inquired. 

" My husband is very much against my going 
to prison," she explained, " and he has been so 
good about letting me help in other ways that I 
do not feel it would be right to do it." 

At this point an elector, who had evidently been 
dining not wisely but too well, strolled into the 
shop and leant up against the counter. 

" I'll vote for the women this time," he 
announced, with a friendly smile. " I've always 
voted Liberal, but I'rh for the women this time. 
Why shouldn't they vote just the same as us ? " 
and he looked round vacantly. 

"Will you sign this post-card, then, to Mr. 
Asquith ? " asked the organiser, holding one out to 
him. 

He regarded it doubtfully. 

" I'm no just very well to-day," he said. " I'm 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 13 

thinking I couldn't sign it right. Maybe the wife 
will, though," and taking it in his hand, he 
lurched but into the street. We looked at each 
other in silence. 

A moment later an errand boy opened the door 
to call out : " Votes for women, votes for donkeys, 
votes for dogs! " Then we laughed. 

February 13TH. 

I woke this morning with a feeling of distinct 
thankfulness that the last day of the bye-election 
week had come. It certainly is most trying work, 
and to make things worse, it has been snowing 
hard, and we have felt horribly cold standing about. 
I do think the women are wonderfiil. One girl 
came into the Committee Room yesterday and 
said she could give from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. if they 
let her have half an hour off for lunch. I was 
feeling dreadfully ashamed of myself at the time, 
because I had just refiised to go with another 
woman to chalk pavements advertising open-air 
meetings. 

I had made some excuse about not having time, 
but in reality it was because I had not sufficient 
courage to do it, so when this girl came in prepared 
to do anything they wanted, and for any length of 
time, it made me feel worse. 

I only volunteered to give four hours' work 
to-day at one of the polling booths, and I had 
expected that to be comparatively simple, as we 
merely have to hand leaflets to the electors on their 
way in, asking them to keep the Liberal out. 

While occupied in doing this I was much inter- 



14 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

ested In watching a girl who was endeavouring to 
persuade the electors to sign a petition to Mr. 
Asquith, requesting that qualified women should 
be enfranchised. She was a sweet-looking girl, 
and evidently was feeling very tired and cold. She 
stood just outside the door of the polling booth, 
beside a table on which there were some writing 
materials, holding this petition in her hand, and 
as each man came out she said rather nervously : 
" Will you -sign this petition, please ? " 

Hardly a man did so. They either ignored her 
completely or made some contemptuous reply and 
hurried on. I watched these proceedings for a long 
time with a growing sense of anger, until finally, 
half an hour before my time on duty had expired, 
I saw one of our women approaching. I begged 
her to take my place while I went over to help the 
girl with the petition. 

" You can't do that," said the Suffragette. " She 
belongs to the National Society, and they dis- 
approve of our militant methods." 

"Nevertheless, I intend to try," and I handed 
my leaflets to the newcomer, who said she would 
watch and see how many signatures I got. 

The girl smiled pleasantly when I came up and 
off^ered to help her. " I wish you would," she 
said. " I am so tired of standing here, and they 
do not seem to want to sign." 

I do not believe for a moment that these petitions 
do any good, but I was determined to make some 
people sign, so I stationed myself at the outside 
gate, just in the entrance. Instantly a policeman 
came up. 

" You Suffragettes have no right to be here at 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 15 

all," he said; " you can't stand there blocking the 
thoroughfare, you must get further back." 

I stepped back instantly, recognising the im- 
portance of keeping in with him. " How am I 
to stop these people and make them sign that 
paper if I do not stand at the entrance ? " I asked, 
pleasantly. 

" You can't stop them," he replied, shortly. 

" Do you not think that women should be 
allowed to vote .'' " I asked. 

" There is no reason why they should not vote," 
he replied, " but they've no call to chain themselves 
to railings." 

" Well, after all, it is ourselves we chain," I 
observed. " We take all the risks in this fight, 
and we do not kill other people as men did when 
they wanted the vote. What I want to know is 
this : What are you doing to help the women to 
get this enfranchisement, which you think they 
ought to have ? " 

He looked at me for a moment. " What do 
you want me to do ? " he asked. 

" Only just to look the other way," I suggested, 
" while I go forward a step or two and speak to 
these electors. I will promise not to hit anyone," 
I added, as he hesitated. 

The policeman smiled. " Right you are, miss," 
he said, and walked on. 

An oldish gentleman had just looked scornfully 
at the lady with the petition, and was about to 
pass me, when I laid my hand on his arm. " Why 
did you not sign that woman's petition } " I asked, 
in my most militant tones. " Do you understand 
what it is about .'' " 



1 6 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

He turned round angrily. " Madam," he said, 
looking me up and down, " I understand perfectly 
what it is about. What I fail to understand is, 
why you women should be satisfied to throw away 
your privileges for the sake of rights." 

" I will gladly make you a present of all the 
privileges I have ever received," I replied, " in 
return for the most elementary justice of being 
considered a citizen and a person in the eyes of 
the law." 

The old gentleman hesitated for a moment. 
" What do you want a vote for ? " he asked. 

" What do you want one for yourself ? " I 
retorted. 

He straightened himself. " I am a man," he 
explained, " and politics are a man's work. Your 
place is in your home, and that is where you should 
be now," and he walked on. 

I smiled at the policeman, who was standing 
near, and then turned my attention to business 
again. Agentlemanly-lookingmanwas approaching. 

With a feeling of diffidence I touched him on 
the arm. " Why did you not sign her petition ? " 
I asked, reproachfully. " Do you also believe that 
qualified women are not fit to vote, while all these 
men are ? " and I glanced at the mixed crowd 
round us. 

He stepped aside to let the others pass out. 
" Women are above politics," he said, thought- 
fully. " I do not think they should touch them; 
it would tend to degrade them." 

" On the contrary," I exclaimed, " women would 
raise politics. What has woman's influence been 
everywhere ? " 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 17 

" You are right," he said, quietly; " woman's 
influence might raise politics." 

" Then you will sign the petition ? " 

" Yes, I will sign," and he walked back to the 
table. Encouraged by this success, I intercepted 
the next man. He looked at me and laughed. 

" By Jove ! you are not a Suffragette, are you .'' " 
he inquired. 

" Yes," I replied, " I am a Suffragette. I should 
be ashamed to be anything else." 

" Not a militant Suffragette .'' " he persisted. 

" Yes, a militant Suffragette. "Why not .'' " 

" You do not look like one," he explained. 

" Have you met many ? " 

" No, none, but I have read about them, and 
that is enough for me. As for signing that paper 
— I am a Liberal." 

" All the more reason why you should approve 
of Liberal principles, which are that taxation and 
representation should go together. Can you give 
me one logical reason why qualified women should 
be disfranchised on the ground of sex only ? " 

" I see no reason why they should not have 
votes," he admitted, " but I object to your way of 
asking." 

" It is surely not much trouble to sign your 
name," I said, " and I thought I had asked you 
very nicely. You do not want me to go down on 
my knees, do you, with all this snow on the 
ground ? " 

" You know quite well what I mean," he said, 
impatiently. " The militant methods are what I 
disapprove of." 

" The word ' militant,' " I observed, " is a 



1 8 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

strangely misleading term. We all learnt in our 
grammar books the difference between ' I eat,' or 
' I am eaten,' ' I beat,' or ' I am beaten,' etc. Our 
so-called militant methods consist solely in having 
things done to us; we hurt no one — at least, so 
far we have not," I added, cheerfully. " I have 
great hopes that in the near future we shall improve 
upon our present methods." 

" Is it not something to have scratched and 
kicked policemen ? " 

" Do I look as if I would scratch a policeman ? " 

" No," he admitted; " but you do not deny that 
some of them have done so." 

" I deny it absolutely, because I know that they 
have not. Will you sign that petition, or will you 
not ? " 

He hesitated for a moment. "Yes, I will, if 
you really want me. to." 

" Thanks, awfully," I said, with genuine grati- 
tude, as he retraced his steps; and I had just time 
to stop a man who was hurrying past. 

He looked me up and down, insolently. " Why 
should you wish to take an interest in politics ? " 
he inquired. " You should get married — that is 
the best thing for a woman to do." 

" I am married," I explained, " but I fail to see 
what that has to do with the case." 

"JTou are married, are you.? Well, if I were 
your husband you would not come here and do 
this sort of thing, I can tell you." 

" No doubt," I replied, " I should be too much 
taken up with my own troubles under those circum- 
stances to be philanthropic about other women's, 
but Fate has been kind. Though I have not as 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 19 

yet got a vote, I have been spared that." 

Though I smiled pleasantly as I said this, I 
wanted dreadfully to hit him, and I am sure he felt 
much the same. Anyhow, he did not sign, but 
gave a stifF bow, and walked away, just as a 
middle-aged man, wearing a big rosette of the 
Liberal colours, waved aside the petition and 
approached the gate. I touched him on the arm. 

" Why did you not sign her paper ? " I asked. 

" Because I do not approve of every woman 
having the vote," he explained, in a loud voice. 
" For women qualified as men are it is all very 
well." 

I pointed out that that was all we were asking 
for, but he still hesitated. 

" Oh, do please sign," I said. " It will only 
take a minute, and you would if you knew how 
tired I am of arguing and how cold it is standing 
here in the snow." 

" It must be," he said, sympathetically. " I do 
not think you should stay any longer." 

" Oh, never mind about me; only sign that 
petition before you go," and he did. 

The next man whom I questioned remarked 
that women were not interested in politics, and 
would certainly not use the vote if they got it. 

" In that case there can be no harm in letting 
them have it," I observed, " so you may as well 
sign the petition." 

" That is true," he admitted, and went back. 

When half an hour later the time came for me 
to go I had secured the signatures of nine men, all 
of whom had passed the table in the first instance, 
besides having some interesting discussions during 



20 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

the intervals with the policeman and a man who 
was standing outside holding a note-book and 
asking the electors as they came out for their 
voting numbers. I succeeded in entirely convert- 
ing the latter to the necessity for militant methods. 

" Your voting number, please, miss ? " he 
inquired of me with a grin as I was leaving. 

" Nineteen hundred and nine," I replied, " for 
we are going to get it this year." 

" I hopes you will, miss, I'm sure," he said. 

When I got home I had barely time to change 
my frock and hurry off to a tea-party at a friend's 
house. As it was I arrived late. 

" I want to introduce you to Mr. S ," said 

my hostess, in a whispered aside; " there he is 
sitting on the sofa; he is a virulent 'anti-Suffra- 
gist,' so you can have a nice discussion. Convert 
him if you can, only do not come to blows over 
it," and walking across the room with me, she 
introduced him, and left us together. 

At first he talked about ladies' frocks and 
whether large picture hats were becoming or not. 
He was the type of man who always speaks to a 
woman as if he were addressing a child, coming 
down to the level of her understanding. So long 
as he did that it was all right, but presently during 
a pause in our conversation we heard a very pretty 
girl, who was sitting not far off, remark to the lady 
next her that she had been going round to all her 
friends with an anti-Suffrage petition, collecting 
signatures, and had been most successful. 

" Several of the people refused at first," she 
explained, " because they had already signed for 
someone else, but I persuaded them to do it again. 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 21 

I did so want to get thirty signatures on my paper." 

Involuntarily I turned to my companion. 
" That was a good plan of hers, wasn't it ? " I said, 
drily. " If everyone were to sign twice it would 
help enormously." 

Then, of course, we started discussing " votes 
for women." I asked him to explain to me why he 
disapproved of woman's suffrage, and he did. In 
spite of my recent experiences at this election, I 
was surprised at the things he said to me. I do 
not suppose he really meant to be insulting. Any- 
how, after having done his best to prove that 
women have no intelligence, and are only fit to 
do the cooking or to bring children into the world, 
and adding that any woman, if she were attractive 
enough, could make half a dozen men vote any 
way she chose, he concluded his remarks by say- 
ing : " Those are my views on the subject." 

I purposely drank a little tea before making any 
reply, because I find that if one answers without a 
moment's reflection one is apt to be rude, and I 
did not want to be. 

" I was expecting arguments of that sort," I 
said, quietly, " but I had hoped that you would 
have spared me the ' Mind the baby ' one. Even 
the cabmen and loafers have almost outgrown it. 
You see, married women would not get the vote 
unless they were earning their own living, in which 
case their work would keep them away from their 
homes all day, anyhow. As for indirect influence, 
it seems a pity that intelligent male electors should 
be influenced in their decisions by the fact that a 
woman happens to be attractive or pretty." 

I could not look at him as I said this, because 



22 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

my eyes were full of tears from having swallowed 
the tea too hot, and he did not make any remark 
for quite a long time, so I could not tell at first 
how he was taking it. 

" Dear me," he said at last, with a return to his 
" come-down-to-your-level " manner, " we are 
very much in earnest. With your views, Mrs. 
Brown, you ought to be a member of the 
' Women's Social and Political Union.' " 

" I am a member," I replied. " These are our 
colours," and I showed him my Suffragette brooch. 
He examined it critically. 

"Very pretty," he said; "charming. And do 
you drive about in a wagonette decorated with 
purple, white, and green flags? I should not go 
to HoUoway if I were you. The excitement and 
notoriety are all very well, but the prison clothes 
are not at all becoming." 

" That settles the question then, of course," I 
said, laughing, and endeavoured to change the 
subject, perceiving the futility of pursuing it. 

He persisted, however, in discussing woman's 
suffrage, and nothing else. 

I have neither the time nor the inclination to 
record all the things that he said. As for con- 
vincing him, one might as well have tried to convert 
Mr. Asquith. I think, however, that I am glad I 
have met him, otherwise I should never have sup- 
posed that there were men who had those views 
about women. At last he rose to go. 

" Mrs. Brown," he said, " I will give you a 
word of advice before I leave. Women are very 
charming when they keep in their own place. Just 
stay where you are." 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 23 

I made no reply, and perhaps he felt that he had 
been rude, for after saying good-bye to the hostess 
he walked back to where I was sitting and said 
playfially : " You must not mind me, Mrs. Brown; 
being only a mere man, I am very obstinate and 
pig-headed." 

" Please do not trouble to explain that," I said. 
" It is the only one thing you had made quite clear 
to me already." 

The moment I had said it I was sorry, particu- 
larly as he walked away without replying. It was 
horribly rude, and worthy of an " Anti." If I 
ever meet him again I shall apologise. 

March 6th. 

I had a most interesting time yesterday steward- 
ing at a meeting for Mrs. Pankhurst. This is the 
first time that I have heard her speak, and I en- 
joyed it thoroughly. For quite an hour she kept 
the audience spellbound, and the constant applause 
was most encouraging. 

I had rather a busy time before the meeting be- 
gan, showing people to their seats and taking the 
tickets, but there were a good many of us steward- 
ing, so we each took a certain part of the hall. The 
place was crowded, at least two thousand people 
were there, and when question time came a large 
number of questions were asked, all of which Mrs. 
Pankhurst answered immediately and convincingly 
in the amazing way that all these women do. 

I have been very much struck by the gift of the 
Suffragette speakers for light repartee; it has a 
wonderful effect in appealing to a crowd. 

I was present at an evening meeting for working 



24 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

men a few days ago, where it seemed as if the 
audience were going to be extremely rowdy. Men 
and boys at the back were singing and stamping or 
playing musical instruments, and when the speaker, 
quite a young girl, stepped on to the platform I 
could not help wondering how she would manage. 

To my surprise, she smiled sweetly at them all, 
and said that if the gentlemen at the back would be 
so very kind as to allow her to be heard she would 
be glad to answer any questions afterwards which 
they cared to ask her. Quite soon there was not a 
sound to be heard, with the exception of one man 
who was drunk and persisted in interrupting, much 
to the indignation of the others, who wished to 
turn him out, but the speaker interposed. 

" Oh, please don't," she said, " we never turn 
people out of our meetings for asking questions; 
we leave that to Liberal Cabinet Ministers." 

When the meeting, which proved to be a most 
successful one, was over, I had a few moments' 
conversation with the speaker. 

" How splendidly you answered them all," I 
said. " Do you like this work .?" 

" I love it," she said. " I have given up my 
professional career to devote my whole time to it, 
because I can see no other way of bringing in the 
reforms we want than by securing political power 
for women." 

" When we get the vote you will miss having 
all this sort of thing to do." 

She laughed as she tied a purple, white, and 
green scarf round her neck. 

" Our real work will begin then," she said, 
quietly. 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 25 

March 8th. 

I have undertaken to promote the sale of the 
Votes for Women paper here. The work consists 
in getting the names of girls who are willing to 
seU it in the streets, and arrange with them the 
days and hours they can spare and the locality in 
which they will work, also to see that our paper is 
exhibited at the station, and to interview news- 
agents and endeavour to persuade them to sell the 
paper and show it in their window. 

Hitherto, I have secured three sellers and one 
newsagent. I feel that I ought to go with these 
women myself, but somehow I cannot summon up 
svifficient courage to do it. The idea of chalking 
notices on the pavement, or standing at a street 
corner wearing the large regalia and selling the 
paper to passers by, simply terrifies me. I may 
be able to some day, but at present the very thought 
of it makes me feel cold all over. However, I am 
seriously contemplating going to prison. 

I hear that a deputation is going to the House of 
Commons on the 30th inst., and after that the 
organiser is anxious that some of us should volun- 
teer for a later one. The leaders would like 
members from every part of the country to be 
represented, and so far none have gone from here. 

My only difficulty is what arrangement to make 
for the boys during my absence, but I dare say 
something could be managed. The more I think 
of it, the more I feel that I ought to go to prison. 
When I realise what other women are doing in this 
movement, I am ashamed. Yesterday a hospital 
nurse came to me and said she got two hours off 
every day and could give that time for selling the 



26 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

paper, if I liked. I know what work in a hospital 
means, and how vitally important it is to rest 
during those short two hours. So I thanked her 
very much and said we had enough sellers at 
present. 

March 14TH. 

I have definitely decided that I shall go in this 
deputation to the House of Commons, so, this 
morning, I went to the committee room and gave 
in my name to the orp-aniser. Miss M . 

To my surprise, she seemed to hesitate for a 
moment. 

" Do you quite understand what going to prison 
means ?" she asked. 

" I think so," I said. " Anyhow, I know this 
much, that about 400 women have gone already 
for this Cause, and where they have been, I can 
surely follow. I admit that I dread the crowd, 
rather, and having to force one's way through, but 
as regards prison, is it so very bad?" 

"There are many people," she said, slowly, "who 
think that because our women come out of Hollo- 
way with smiling faces, are unwilling to talk of 
what they have suffered, and profess themselves 
ready to go back a second and a third time, that 
prison life must be easy and almost comfortable, 
but you see. Suffragettes are afraid of having the 
movement side-tracked on to prison reform, so they 
keep to the point. They do not complain of 
insufficient air, bad food, dirty prison clothes, plank 
beds, and damp, cold cells. They know, because 
it has been proved, that going to prison does help 
as nothing else does, so they go again. If you are 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 27 

prepared for all that prison means, with its solitary 
confinement, no communication with the outside 
world for a month, and no conversation with any- 
one except a wardress with the special prison voice, 
then I will send in your name to Christabel Pank- 
hurst as a volunteer for the deputation next 
month." 

I could not help smiling at the " special prison 
voice." " Are the wardresses always disagreeable, 
poor things ? " I asked. 

" Well, not always. Things have altered won- 
derfully since our women first went to prison. 
Many times when they were leaving the other 
prisoners have said : ' God bless the Suffragettes. 
They have brougFt sunshine into Holloway,' or 
words to that effect. No one ever seems to have 
smiled or looked happy there before." 

" Well, I am prepared for all that prison means, 
so that is settled," I said. " Can you tell me when 
the deputation is likely to go ? " 

" The date is not fixed yet, but it will probably 
be at the end of April or early in May. This first 
one goes on the 30th of March, and there will be 
at least a month before another is sent, so you will 
have time to make the necessary plans." 

I am glad of that, for there will be a good deal 
to arrange. 

March i6th. 

I have been to-day to an anti-Suffrage meeting. 
It is a thing I shall never do again, but I almost 
think I am glad that I went. 

To me it would always seem a pitiable and 
deplorable spectacle to see a woman trying, how- 



28 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

ever ineffectually, to retard the progress of other 
women, but I would never have believed it possible 
that any educated, intelligent person could deliber- 
ately bring herself to stand on a platform and talk 
the nonsense that that woman talked for the space 
of nearly an hour. Having begun her speech by 
assuring us that the world would be a better and a 
happier place if women remained in their own 
homes, attending to their duties, instead of lectur- 
ing on platforms about " rights " (a sentiment 
which, in her case, I for one mlly endorsed before 
the meeting ended), this lady proceeded to explain 
to the audience that women had not sufficient 
intelligence to understand or take any serious 
interest in political questions, adding that they 
already had an immense indirect influence and were 
always able to help men enormously by canvassing 
for them at elections. (Why an intelligent male 
voter should allow his decisions to be thus in- 
fluenced by a person admittedly incapable of under- 
standing a political question she did not say.) 
^ A portion of the audience, who evidently 
approved of backstalr influence, applauded feebly. 
Encouraged by this, the speaker went on to say 
that in England women are in the majority, and 
that as Adult Suffrage would be bound to follow 
eventually if qualified women were enfranchised, 
the feminine vote would outnumber the male by a 
million, which, in her opinion, would evidently 
mean the fall of the Empire. In Australia, where 
there is Adult Suffrage, the fact that there are a 
million more men than women has never to my 
knowledge been used as an argument against men 
being enfranchised. Be that as it may, the audience 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 29 

again seemed feebly gratified by this suggestion of 
the " dangerous majority," even when the lady 
added triumphantly that if the vote were given to 
women more than half of them would never use it ! 

I heard a Suffragette behind me say in a whisper 
to her companion that as all the logical arguments 
were on our side, it seemed a pity not to have had 
at least a speaker on the other, adding that she 
could have made a much better " Anti " speech 
herself. I smiled at her, glad to catch one under- 
standing eye. The speaker then proceeded to 
explain that she admired women. She enlarged on 
their charm, and usefialness in the home, and of 
course managed to introduce the " physical force " 
argument that women could not fight for their 
country. 

I always think that " antis " fail to make the 
most of that physical force argument, which seems 
to be the only real one they have. Instead of 
pressing the point that women are not soldiers 
(considering that history and recent events have 
proved that many women could and would fight if 
they were allowed to, not to mention the fact that 
soldiers do not have the vote) it would be better to 
state the case as it really stands. They should say : 
" Custom has hitherto given the Parliamentary 
vote to men only, and men are physically stronger 
than women; logically we admit that you are 
entitled to it, but practically we refuse to give it to 
you; take it if you are strong enough." 

But no; this lady meandered on about men being 
men, and women being women. She informed us 
that their spheres were separate, that their points of 
view were different, not seeing that all this was 



30 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

only another strong argument why the woman's 
point of view in the country required to be repre- 
sented as well as the man's. 

I was very glad when she stopped, because I was 
feeling so ashamed for her. In a speech of Forbes 
Robertson's on this question I heard him say that if 
anyone among the audience was still unconverted 
to the case for woman's suffrage he would recom- 
mend them to go to an anti-Suffrage meeting, 
where their last doubts would be dispelled. 

It might, of course, be argued on the other hand, 
that if a woman is capable of making such a speech 
as the one I have just heard, clearly women are not 
qualified to vote, but I must admit the fact that 
practically all these same contradictory arguments 
were used by the " anti " man whom I met at tea 
on the polling booth day. 

There was not much applauseand no enthusiasm. 
The speaker did not tell us what we ought to do 
to avert this impending catastrophe of woman's 
suffrage. Perhaps she is still of those who believe 
that signing petitions will be sufficient, or possibly 
she would consider it unwomanly to do anything 
except talk. 

Two people at the door were standing taking a 
collection. I saw 3d. put in as I passed. Outside 
in the street were a man and a woman selling 
pamphlets. Simultaneously they offered me one. 

" For or against woman's suffrage } " I asked. 

" For," they both answered together. 

" Yes, please, I will take two. I was afraid it 
might be 'anti,' and I can't stand any more 
to-night." 

They laughed with the cheerful optimism of the 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 3 1 

Suffragist as I took one from each, but my cheeks 
are still hot with the sort of horrible ashamed 
feeling one gets when a woman has made a fool of 
herself in public. It is like seeing a woman drunk. 
It always seems so much worse than if it had been 
a man, I don't know why. If a man had made that 
speech to-night I think I could have laughed. As 
it is, I only feel hot. 

March 28th. 

I decided to buy a copy of Votes for Women 
from the railway bookstall this morning, as I had 
been told that our poster there was not properly 
exhibited, and no effort made to show the paper. 

When I reached the station I found this report 
to be only too true. It was some time before I 
could find the poster, which was almost hidden in 
a corner, and there was not a copy of the paper to 
be seen on the stalls. I handed a penny to the 
man who was selling papers, and asked him if he 
had a copy left of Votes for Women. 

He stared at me blankly, then searched for a few 
moments on the ground behind the bookstall, and 
fished out a paper, which he threw on to the counter 
in front of me. His manner could scarcely be 
called an advertisement for the cause. 

I asked him quite politely if he would mind 
leaving a copy where it could be seen, and also 
requested that the poster should be placed in a 
more conspicuous place, explaining that we wanted 
the paper advertised. 

He replied that the poster would do well enough 
where it was, and there was no room on the stalls 



32 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

for the paper. "Them that wants it can ask for 
it," he said, " and as for advertising of it, I should 
think you SuiFragettes could do that well enough 
for yourselves." 

I manfully (or should I say "'SuffragettefuUy" ?) 
resisted a strong desire to hit him, and contented 
myself by placing the copy I had bought in a con- 
spicuous position on the stall, after which I left the 
station. 

On my way home I met a girl selling pamphlets, 
so I stopped to speak to her. She told me she was 
a member of the Freedom League, so I asked her 
wherein lay the difference between their methods 
and those of the W.S.P.U. to which I belonged. 
" You disapprove of militant methods, don't 
you ? " I asked. 

" Oh, no ! I am going to prison next month," 
she explained, cheerfully. " We go on deputations 
the same as you do, only we do not interrupt 
Cabinet Ministers' meetings." 

" Why not ? " I inquired. " Surely you do not 
disapprove of that ? " 

" Not at all," she said, laughing. " Personally, 
I think, as a policy, it is excellent, but I do not wjsh 
to be killed." 

March 29TH. 

A fiinny thihg happened to-day. A friend of 
mine, who was very anxious to have her hand read 
by a palmist, and had been strongly advised to 
visit a clairvoyant here who is said to be wonderful, 
asked me if I would accompany her, which I did, 
as I was curious to hear what would be said. IVhen 
we reached the house, however, the woman refused 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 33 

to have us in the room together, so finally we both 
had our fortunes told separately. 

It really was rather extraordinary, for of course 
the clairvoyant had never seen me before, and there 
is nothing about my appearance to suggest that I 
am a criminal. I was not even Wearing our colours, 
and yet, after looking into her crystal, she said : 
" You will be in prison." 

I hurriedly explained that I contemplated going 
in a deputation to the Prime Minister, and I pre- 
sumed that would be the result. 

She gazed steadily into the crystal. " No," she 
said, slowly, " it will be for something else later 
on." 

" Please do not infer," I begged, " that I shall 
be imprisoned for theft." 

The clairvoyant smiled. " No, it is for some- 
thing in connection with this work. You will go 
in a very big deputation, much larger than has 
ever gone before, you will be roughly handled, and 
will be in great danger from horses. You will be 
arrested, but I do not think that you will go to 
prison this time." 

" That is impossible," I interrupted. " Every- 
one that has been arrested has always been to 
prison. You surely do not mean that I would pay 
the fine } " 

" I cannot tell what will happen," said the clair- 
voyant. " I can only tell you what I see. The 
Government will do something quite unexpected. 
Later on I see a great disappointment for you; also 
you might go in a still larger deputation next year. 
I see a flag, which means triumph in the end, but it 
will not be for some time yet." Of course, she 



34 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

must be wrong, but it is strange that she should 
have seen the deputation in the crystal. 

March 31ST. 

At breakfast this morning I read the description 
in the paper of yesterday's deputation to the Prime 
Minister. It made me feel hot and cold all over. 
I still feel it when I think of all the people who 
must have read that account. To relieve my feel- 
ings I went to the Committee Room at 10.30 to 
discuss the subject with Miss M . 

She was talking to a stranger. " This is a 
prisoner," she announced, as she introduced her to 
me. " She will be able to tell you what to expect 
in HoUoway." 

" I don't care what happens in Holloway," I 
explained. " I never have minded the idea of 
prison. I only wish I were there now, and the 
deputation over. That is the part I can't bear to 
think of. Have you read to-day's paper ? " 

" Yes; wasn't it splendid? " she said, her cheeks 
glowing with pride, her eyes sparkling. " Really, 

Mrs. S is wonderful. She got through them 

all." 

" You call it splendid ! " I exclaimed, in amaze- 
ment. " Well, I think it is horrible. If that is 
what a deputation means, I fail to see what good it 
can ever do to the Cause." 

Miss M glanced at me. " You mean that 

you have changed your mind about going in May ?" 

" I have given in my name for the next deputa- 
tion," I replied, " and of course I shall keep my 
word, even if I have to struggle with policemen 
and knock off their helmets; but picture It to your^ 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 35 

self. The paper says : ' For hours the women 
fought desperately, kicking and struggling in their 
efforts to overcome the police.' As for this Mrs. 

S whom you caU splendid, this is how she is 

described : ' Hatless, breathless, and dishevelled, 
clutching a broken banner in her hand, she stag- 
gered on to the steps of the House of Commons.' " 

With one accord Miss M and the prisoner 

sank on to two chairs, and laughed, till I thought 
that they would never stop. " The papers always 
write that sort of thing," they explained, when they 
were able to speak. 

" But, is it not true } " 

" Surely, surely," said the prisoner, reproach- 
fully; " you did not for one moment believe it to 
be true .? " 

" Of course I did, when the paper said so. If it 
is a lie someone must write and contradict it at 
once." 

" The letter would not be inserted. The Press 
is I)oycotting this movement, and nothing is put in 

unless it is sensational. Shall I describe Mrs. S 

to you ? I know her very well. She is an elderly 
lady with white hair, gentle and sweet, almost early 
Victorian in her views about what is womanly. She 
is not strong, though she has such amazing courage. 
I hope she was not much hurt." 

" Have you ever been in a deputation } " I 
asked, turning to Miss M . 

" No," she said, " not yet. I have asked for 
permission often, but the leaders won't let me go. 
I am required outside as a speaker, and they cannot 
afford to have many speakers and organisers in 
prison. We must obey orders, of course, and do 



36 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

whatever helps the Cause best," and she sighed. 

" Have you ever heckled a Cabinet Minister ? " 

" Oh, yes, several times. You must do that if 
one comes up here to speak. Afterwards you will 
feel that you don't mind anything else." 

" Tell me what happens." 

" It is very simple. You go to the meeting, 
and the first opportunity you are given in the 
Cabinet Minister's speech you stand up and ask 
your question, ' when he means to carry out Liberal 
principles by giving women the vote,' or something 
of that sort. The audience does the rest. Great 
excitement always follows. Half a dozen stewards 
rush forward instantly and throw you violently out 
of the hall. A few moments later, when quiet is 
restored, another woman gets up in the same way, 
and the scene repeats itself." 

" But you do not hit people with umbrellas on 
the way out ? " 

Miss M smiled. " It is a rule of the 

Union that we never take an umbrella with us, 
even if it is raining we carry nothing in our hands." 

" But do the stewards reaUy hurt the women ? " 

" Hurt them ? Of course they do. One woman 
I know nearly lost the sight of both eyes, several 
sustained internal injuries from kicks or blows. I 
have seen one woman who interrupted before my 
turn came kicked by six different men on her way 
out of the hall, though she was held by two others, 
and walking quietly. Generally they are thrown 
down the steps into the street below." 

" Do not tell me any more," I begged. " It 
makes me feel sick, and I must go now anyhow, 
as I have shopping to do." 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 37 

" Will you post a letter for me as you pass the 
pillar-box ? It is to a prisoner; I hope it will catch 
her before she goes to HoUoway." 

I promised to do so, and took the letter almost 
reverently. 

On my way home someone came up behind me 
and touched me on the arm. I turned round, to see 
a girl I have spoken to occasionally at our meetings. 

" Mrs. Brown," she said, " I hear you are going 
to prison. Don't go; it is not worth it." 

" Why ? " I exclaimed. " Do you really think 
it does not help the Cause? " 

" These small deputations are useless. We have 
gone on too long hurting ourselves and not others. 
I believe nothing will get us the vote but a 
fight-^— sticks, stones, and violence. You take my 
advice and do not go to prison. It is horrible; I 
have been there." 

I could not help laughing as I walked on. This 
is the first Suffragette I have met who advocated 
violence, even jokingly, which only shows what 
astounding patience women have got. 

April 2nd. 

It was suggested to me the other day that a good 
way of increasing the weekly sale of our paper 
would be to dispose of copies in the evenings at 
the queues of theatres while people are waiting for 
the doors to open. The woman who made the 
suggestion stated that she had done this in London 
with great success, and sold eighteen copies in 
quite a short time. 

Accordingly I wrote notes to the three women 
who have been selling the paper, asking them to 



38 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

come here and discuss the new plan with me, add- 
ing that I had decided to accompany them myself 
in future, which I feel was very brave of me. They 
came last night, arid really they were most amusing. 

One is quite a young girl, who works all day in 
a post office helping to support her mother, and 
spares her " off duty " time on Saturday morning 
to sell the paper. She regrets bitterly not being 
able to go to prison, but says that her mother will 
not hear of it. 

I asked her what she thought of the new sug- 
gestion. 

" I do not believe it will work here," she said. 
" The movement is not sufficiently understood, 
and it is horrible standing outside theatres at night 
selling the papers to people who do not under- 
stand." 

" It must be," I assented. " Then I suppose you 
for one will not do it ? " 

" Oh, yes ! Of course I'll do it. After all, it 
is not so bad as having to heckle a Cabinet 
Minister." 

" No, indeed," joined in another young woman. 
" There have been days when I have wakened in 
the morning with a sort of sick pain, afraid to open 
the paper lest I should see that a Cabinet Minister 
was going to speak, and it would be my duty to 
interrupt his speech. That was when I lived near 
the seat of war. It is dreadful that these things 
have to be done." 

" Yes," said the third woman, " one feels before 
one stands up to say, ' Why don't you give 
women the vote ? ' that one's heart is not only 
going up and down, but round and round. After 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 39 

the suspense of anticipation it is a positive relief to 
be knocked down and thrown into the street." 

At this we all laughed. " Have you ever heckled 
a Cabinet Minister .'' " I inquired of the post office 
girl. 

"No; but I once made a speech. I am sure 
nothing could be worse than that." 

" Tell us about it," we all exclaimed, simul- 
taneously. 

" It was not a good speech," she explained, " but 
it served this purpose, that I have never been asked 
to make one since. I was persuaded to accompany 
one of the organisers, who was going to hold an 
open-air meeting for working men, and I imagined 
that all I had to do was to carry the papers for her 
and help in that sort of way. However, when 
we had reached a street corner in a rather slummy 
part of London and had deposited a very shaky 
orange box on the pavement to serve as a platform, 
she insisted that I should ' take the chair ' and say 
a few words while a crowd collected. 

" With feelings which I shall never forget I 
stepped on to the rickety platform and gazed for 
inspiration at the handful of dirty children and 
loafers who represented the audience. 

" ' Friends,' I began, ' we have come here to-day 
as representatives of the Women's Social and 
Political Union to explain to you our by-election 
policy.' At this point the organiser pulled my 
sleeve and whispered that there was no by-election, 
with the result that I nearly fell off the orange box, 
and hurriedly concluded by saying : ' And Miss 

M will now tell you all about it.' I have 

never quite lived down that speech." 



40 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

Of course, we were much entertained, and several 
anecdotes followed before we discussed the business 
in hand. 

It has been finally settled that on Monday even- 
ing we shall go, two of us to one theatre, and two 
to the other, to try our luck. We are going to 
take eighteen papers each to sell, and the post 
office girl is to be with me. I am not much look- 
ing forward to the experience, but one must help. 

April 4TH. 

I went to-day to an " At Home " given by the 
National Society for Woman's Suffrage, as I 
thought it would be interesting to hear their point 
of view. The meeting was not inspiring, and I 
felt dreadfully bored. 

The speakers argued well as to the reasons why 
women should be enfranchised, and gave statistics 
about the petitions signed and meetings held in 
this connection within the last forty or fifty years, 
but that was all. They suggested no means by 
which we might hope to secure this Parliamentary 
vote, but insisted on the importance of constitu- 
tional methods, after Having proved them to have 
been useless so far. 

With all due deference to the astonishing 
patience of these ladies, and the good they have 
doubtless done in the way of spadewor-k, I must 
admit that I have no desire to join their Society. 

As I walked home I sympathised vaguely with 
the feelings of the Irishman in the story whose 
little girl went up to where a crowd had collected 
and said : " Please, is there a fight going on ? 
because, if so, father would like to be in it." 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 41 

April 5TH. 

I have just returned from selling papers at the 
queues of theatres, and having partaken of a light 
meal and a strong drink, I now feel equal to record- 
ing our experiences before retiring to bed. 

It was much worse than I had expected. Clearly 
this place does not understand yet. Counting the 
people outside the theatre, and those we passed in 
the street on the way there and back, I suppose we 
offered papers to sixty or seventy persons to-night, 
out of which number barely a dozen were even civil. 

The post office girl kept assuring me that it was 
all right on Saturday mornings, and the mistake 
was in coming at night. It is mistake which I, 
for one, shall not repeat. 

Almost every woman to whom I offered the 
paper stared at me coldly and waved it aside, or 
made some scornful remark. The majority of the 
men seemed to be under the impression that we 
were doing it for fun, and either made jokes or 
insulting remarks. 

" What is your name, dear ? Are you Christa- 
bel.?" asked one; while others would inquire, 
"Which would you rather have, a husband or a 
vote .'' " It was just when I was wondering whether 
to give it up or not, and my companion had crossed 
the street to intercept anyone passing on the 
opposite side, that I noticed a gentleman coming 
towards me. 

" Will you buy our paper, Fotes for Women, 
one penny," I asked, walking on slowly as I spoke. 
He stopped, however, and held out his hand for a 
copy. 

" I have got one already at home, but I may as 



42 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

well take another; I can give it to a friend. I 
think it is so brave of you all to do this work,"he 
added, pleasantly. 

" Oh, how nice of you to understand," I could 
not help exclaiming. " They think, all the others, 
everyone we meet, that we do it for fun; that we 
like doing it." And I gave the sort of laugh that 
one gives when one has to laugh, so as not to 
scream. 

He understood, perfectly. 

" Never mind the others," he said, as he gave 
me a penny and took the paper, " it really does not 
matter in the least bit what they think." 

I described, briefly, our experiences this evening. 

" Why do you do it ?" he inquired. " There 
must be plenty of others who could sell the papers." 

" If war were declared and your country needed 
you for active service you would not sit at home, 
comfortably, and say : ' There are plenty of other 
men.' Now that I understand what this movement 
really means, I must stand by these women. I 
should be so ashamed afterwards if I had not 
helped." 

" That is true," he admitted. " I should feel 
exactly the same in your place; and of one thing I 
am certain. Woman's Suffrage will come, and 
before very long, but do not forget that every great 
movement for reform has evoked opposition similar 
to this, and try to have patience for a little longer." 

With these words he raised his hat and walked on. 

From that moment my luck seemed to turn 
somewhat. First a labourer came up. 

" Look here, miss," he said, " are you prepared 
to do a man's work ?" 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 43 

" Certainly not," I replied, " are you prepared 
to do a woman's work? Would you like to 
change places with your wife, for instance ?" 

I do not believe this side of the question had 
ever occurred to him before. He considered for a 
few moments, then he said, slowly : 

" Well, no, I can't say that I should. A woman's 
work is never done, as you might say, what with 
the bairns and all." Then he bought a paper, "Just 
to see what it was about," as he expressed it. 

After that, my companion joined me again, and 
we walked slowly homewards, selling papers here 
and there on our way. Just as we were approach- 
ing the Committee Room we noticed a cab with a 
gentleman in it, waiting in front of a large house. 
I walked up and offered him a paper. Then, for 
the first timg, I noticed that he was drunk, and that 
a rather sweet-looking girl was sitting facing him. 

" Are you a Suffragette .""' he stuttered. 

" Yes," I replied. 

" Well, I'll give you a bit of advice," and he 
lowered his voice to a confidential whisper. " You 
get married. That is the best thing for you to do. 
Get married." 

I looked beyond him at the girl, and she held out 
her hand for a paper. 

" How much is it .?" she asked. 

I told her and she gave me the money, with a 
pleasant smile. 

" I shall enjoy reading it," she said. " I am 
sure it must be very interesting." 

On our arrival we found the organiser patiently 
awaiting our return. 

"We are not going to do this again," I announced, 



44 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

as we deposited the remaining papers and the 
money on the table in front of her. " If selling 
these papers at night here really helped the Cause, 
it might be worth while to be insulted by every 
man one meets and looked at with contempt by 
every woman; but I don't believe that it does." 

The organiser said that she thought she agreed 
with me. That in London it was different; but 
perhaps here it would be as well to content our- 
selves with selling them in the mornings. 

So that experience is over anyhow, and I am 
going to bed. 

April 7TH. 

At last I have chalked pavements! It is won- 
derful how, in this Movement, one gradually keeps 
on doing a little more. I daresay I shall heckle a 
Cabinet Minister before I have finished. 

Yesterday, I went with two others by train to a 
neighbouring town to do what they call pioneer 
work. Having provided ourselves with some 
chalk and a good supply of Suffragette literature, 
we met at the station and started our journey in 
very good spirits, if with some inward misgivings. 
On arrival at our destination, we proceeded to 
chalk on the pavements of the town at intervals : 
" Votes for Women. Meeting at Corn Exchange, 
1.30 p.m., to-day." 

It was not so bad as I had expected. Of 
course, pieces of the chalk would break off, and 
one's back ached from stooping. An interested 
crowd always collected at once to watch the pro- 
ceedings. Occasionally a spectator would rub the 
first word out with his foot before the second was 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 45 

written, but as a rule they contented themselves 
with remarks, such as : 

" They're Suffragettes." « Oh, it's Votes for 
Women they're wanting," etc. 

When this work was finished, we hired a lorry, 
to be placed at our disposal in the Corn Exchange 
— a large square capable of accommodating as 
big a crowd as we wanted. Then we visited two 
newspaper offices, to ask for an account of our 
meeting in the local paper, stroUed into a news- 
agent's to request a Votes for Women paper, and 
express great surprise on being told that they had 
none in stock, finally presenting the shopman with 
a copy and persuading him to exhibit the poster in 
his window. 

After this, having found a confectioner's shop, 
we partook of a light lunch, and retraced our foot- 
steps to the Corn Exchange. 

A large crowd had already collected round the 
lorry, most of them having evidently come out of 
idle curiosity. My share of the work consisted in 
walking about among the audience selling Votes 
for Women and pamphlets to anyone who wanted 
them, and discussing the subject with those who 
were too far away to hear what was being said by 
the speakers. 

They were standing on the lorry, and each spoke 
for about half an hour. I made several converts, 
and found the people most interested and sym- 
pathetic. They were principally farmers who had 
come in for market day, and had never had the 
subject explained to them before. 

One man strolled up to me with an amused 
smile and asked me if it was a vote I wanted or 



46 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

a voter. For one moment I failed to grasp his 
meaning, and replied that what we wanted was 
that women qualified as men are should have the 
Parliamentary vote. He changed his tone at once 
and began to discuss the question, so I explained 
the policy and views of the W.S.P.U., with the 
result that he gave me a shilling for the Cause. 

Ten minutes later, when another man to whom 
I offered a pamphlet, called out : " It's no use, 
miss; Pm a married man," the other told him that 
he was a fool, and began to argue hotly for woman's 
suffrage, finally persuading him to give a shilling 
also! 

The speeches were a great success, and we sold 
quite a lot of literature. After that we were only 
just in time to catch our train back, and returned, 
feeling much pleased with the result of the day's 
work. 

During the journey home we discussed the 
Votes for Women question with the other occu- 
pants of our carriage, and produced a distinct 
impression on one man, who bought a selection of 
pamphlets. 

A girl seated next to me remarked coldly that 
it was possible to look after a baby without being a 
Member of Parliament, after which enigmatical 
remark she gazed beyond me out of the window. 
I was too much taken aback to make any reiply. 
She might just as well have said : " You can go 
for a walk without learning to play the piano." It 
reminds me of another occasion, when I discussed 
the woman's suffrage question with a man at 
dinner, who really seemed interested, and just as I 
was congratulating myself on having put all our 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 47 

strongest arguments clearly before him he re- 
marked thoughtfully that it seemed to him it would 
be a mistake to abolish marriage. These people 
make one feel as if one were Alice in Wonderland 
talking to the Caterpillar. 

April 8th. 

I was darning stockings in the most domesti- 
cated way this morning when the maid came in and 
announced that a lady had called who wanted to 
know if I would sign an anti-Suffrage petition. 
" I told her it was no use," she added, apologetic- 
ally, " but she said she would call again." 

This sounded interesting. I had never seen one 
of these petitions, and I wanted to meet a militant 
" anti " off the stage, so to speak. Accordingly I 
instructed the maid to show the lady in when she 
returned, and to tell her that I wanted to speak to 
her. 

Admiration for the woman's courage in going to 
people's houses with the paper gave me a sort of 
sympathetic feeling. " Probably," I reflected, " the 
poor thing really does think she is doing good." 

It was in quite a friendly spirit that I rose to 
meet the " anti " when she arrived about an hour 
later. She was carrying a roll of paper. I pointed 
to an armchair near the fire, and asked her to sit 
down, which she did, and proceeded to remove her 
gloves while I tried to decide what type she 
belonged to. 

Certainly not the " indirect influence " sort, 
who are afraid of chivalry being killed; she was too 
unattractive looTcing, and not a bit helpless. 
Clearly not the sweet womanly kind who adore 



48 pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

housekeeping and babies, and seem to think that 
enfranchisement will abolish both. On the con- 
trary she looked hard and rather bitter. " Evi- 
dently," I decided, " she must be of those who 
think women are not clever enough to understand 
politics." 

Having settled this point, and noticing that my 
visitor had unfolded her document and was un- 
screwing the top off a fountain pen, I remarked 
pleasantly that I was very glad to meet her, as I 
wanted to hear a logical argument against woman's 
suffrage. " At present, I am a Suffragette," I 
explained, " but I would like so much to hear your 
side of the question." 

She stared at me. " Yeu are a Suffragette ! " 
she exclaimed, in the tone she might have used if 
I had said I was a Nihilist. " If I had understood 
that I would not have come here. Your maid 
clearly said that you wished to see me." 

" So I did. I wanted to hear your side. Have 
you ever been to one of our ' At Homes ' to hear 
" ours ? " 

" Never, and I do not wish to." She was 
rapidly folding up the roll of paper. 

I was a little taken aback by her manner. " But 
how can you discuss the subject and persuade 
people to sign the paper if you do not hear both 
sides of the question ? How can you even feel sure 
that you are right ? " 

She rose and looked at me coldly. " I do not 
discuss the subject," she said, " and I do not intend 
to." With which words she walked out of the 
room and banged the door behind her. 

I do not suppose that many " antis " are like 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 49 

that. I hope not, anyhow. But what are they 
thinking of to let her take the petition round? 

April 9TH. 

I have just been told that the plans for the 
deputation have been altered. Instead of a few 
women going this time, there are to be over 100, 
consisting of representatives from all over Great 
Britain, and the date is to be June 29th. This gives 
me plenty of time for making arrangements. 
There is a good deal to be thought out and settled, 
as I do not intend to tell people that I am going. 
A friend has already offered to keep the boys for 
me and take care of any letters which come during 
my absence, so I shall, just say that I am paying 
visits, like the man who left a piece of cardboard 
in his window with the words " Removed to larger 
lodgings " when he went to prison. 

In the meantime I had been spending my time 
doing fancy work for the Cause and knitting motor 
scarves in purple, white, and green for a stall at 
their bazaar. Truly in this Movement there is 
work for the most constitutional among us. And 
yet it was only the other day that a man asked me 
why we did not hold meetings. This about a 
Union which has held as many as 1,000 in a month ! 

April 14TH. 

At last I have succeeded in making some head- 
way about getting our poster properly exhibited 
at the railway station. Finding after repeated 
efforts that it was quite useless to appeal to the 
man at the bookstall, I decided to go to head- 
quarters, and having secured the address, went 



50 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

there this morning and requested to see the 
manager. 

I was informed that he was busy, and offered a 
substitute. However I explained that I was in 
no hurry and could wait indefinitely, with which 
announcement I sat down patiently and waited. 

After some time the manager came in, and 
looked at me with evident surprise. I explained 
the position to him, pointing out that we wanted 
our paper advertised and not hidden. " It was 
through reading one copy of this paper that I 
became interested in the Cause myself," I explained, 
" and now I am an active worker." 

He was not very sympathtic. " What do you 
want me to do } " he asked. " The poster is 
exhibited, is it not ? " 

I explained once more that it was barely visible, 
and that each time I had asked for a paper the 
man had had to search somewhere on the floor for 
a copy, which he gave me with evident reluctance. 
" Evidently that man at the bookstall is a Liberal," 
I observed. 

" No such thing," said the manager, gruffly. 
" There is no party feeling about it at all. Pro- 
bably he had been already asked for it by a great 
many other ladies." 

" That would be natural," I observed, " when 
there is such a demand for the paper." 

The manager smiled. " Everyone complains," 
he said, " that their own paper is not sufficiently 
exhibited. We can't show all the papers on the 
stalls." 

" Well, you see, it is not a matter of vital 
importance to the country that Jlly Sloper and 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 51 

that sort of thing should be exhibited, but with 
this paper it is." 

" That," said the manager, drily, " is a matter 



of 



opmion 



" Couldn't you let a boy walk along the plat- 
form beside the principal trains selling them ? " I 
s^ggssted. " Passengers starting on a journey 
would be sure to buy one out of curiosity, seeing 
the cartoon on the outside, and, having read it, 
would become interested in the Cause." 

"Certainly not; we could not possibly allow 
that." 

" Very well, then," I said, resignedly, " I sup- 
pose I shall have to do it myself. Walking along 
a platform beside a train will not be any worse than 
selling them in the street." 

The manager looked at me with interest. " We 
have the monopoly of the station," he explained, 
" so you could not do that. But would you really 
be willing to ? " 

" In this Movement," I said, " it is expected 
that every woman will do her duty, and if a thing 
of that sort would help it would be a duty. We 
do not always like the things we have to do, but it 
is a big Cause." 

The manager looked thoughtful. " I can't 
understand why you do it at all," he said. " I have 
often wondered." 

" Well, I cannot understand why you will not 
do this little thing I am asking. It is uphill work 
gettng votes for women," I added slowly, as I rose 

" I am quite sure it is," said the manager, kindly. 
" But I'll do what you want, miss; you may depend 



52 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

on me for that. I'll go this very afternoon and 
give orders that the poster is to be well exhibited 
and a copy of the paper always to be seen." 
I thanked him warmly and left the office. 

May 7TH. 

I want to make a note of an amusing parody I 
read in to-day's Votes for Women. Knowing that 
Mr. Birrell was to take the chair at a meeting of 
the League for the Tax of Land Values, in Colston 
Hall, Bristol, the other day two of our members 
contrived, during the afternoon, to slip in unob- 
served and hid in the organ, in spite of great 
precautions having been taken against Suffragette 
disturbances, the hall having been searched by 
stewards and policemen before the meeting. As 
the poem shows, they succeeded in making an 
effective protest. 

AN ORGAN RECORD. 
Seated one day in the organ 

We were weary and ill at ease ; 
We sat there three hours only, 

Hid, 'midst the dusty keys. 
We knew not if they'd be playing. 

And to us what would happen then, 
But when we heard Mr. Birrell, 

It was then we protested, then. 

Our voices rang out from the twilight. 

But nowhere could we be found ; 
They looked from the floor to the ceiling — 

Then stewards came searching round. 
We asked for votes for women. 

And that justice should be done ; 
But Birrell he could not answer, 

And the audience made such fun. 

He said he had come from Asquith, 

And to him they must give ear ; 
But a voice rang out still louder, 

Making our question clear. 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 53 

It may be that Mr. Birrell 

Won't speak in that Hall again, 
And it may be never in Bristol, 

Until the vote we gain. Vera Holme. 

May ioth. 

I was introduced this morning to one of our 
London speakers. 

" So you are going to prison ? " she said, cheer- 
fully, when we had shaken hands. 

" I am going in a deputation to the Prime 
Minister," I replied. " I may get into the House 
of Commons." 

She laughed merrily. " I daresay you will if 
you are stronger than twenty or thirty policemen." 

" That is the part I dislike," I explained. " I 
do not mind the idea of prison if I could get into a 
cab and drive straight to Holloway." 

" That would be very simple, wouldn't it ? " 
she replied. " However, I am afraid you will not 
do it so easily as that." 

" Do you think," I asked, " that there is any 
chance of Mr. Asquith receiving this deputation 
in preference to imprisoning over one hundred of 
us.?" 

" No, I do not, but it is possible that before the 
29 th of June he might give a Government pledge 
to the Suffrage Societies who advocate constitu- 
tional methods. You see, he under-estimated the 
strength of this Movement to start with, and we 
can scarcely expect him to climb down now and 
admit that he has been compelled to grant the 
franchise to women against his will." 

" But, in that case, everyone will imagine that 
the vote was got through constitutional methods, 



54 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

and in spite of the militant women, not because of 
them." 

She laughed again. " Of course they will, but 
that does not matter in the least. We do not care 
what the public think so long as we get the vote." 

They really are wonderful, the leaders of this 
Movement, always so optimistic and happy, so 
absolutely indifferent to criticism, so ready to 
sacrifice everything merely for the sake of benefit- 
ing other women. And yet there are people who 
really believe that they do it for notoriety, which, 
being interpreted, means misrepresentation, and 
magistrates are under the impression that they 
punish them by giving them a month or six weeks 
in HoUoway, while most of them, like myself, 
look forward to the imprisonment with equanimity 
and indifference as compared with the horrible 
ordeal of having to make the protest, which will 
inevitably result in them being sent there. When 
one reflects for a moment that punishment was 
primarily intended to diminish crime one begins to 
realise the absurdity of the position which the 
Government has taken up. 

June 28th. 

I have had rather an eventful day, so must 
scribble a few lines in my diary before retiring to 
bed. I can hardly realise that to-morrow I shall 
take part in a raid on the House of Commons and 
the following day shall be in prison. I do not 
suppose I shall be allowed to write a diary there, 
but on the other hand I shall probably remember 
very clearly what happens during my sojourn in 
HoUoway. 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette ^^ 

I have been invited to stay in London with a 
member of the W.S.P.U. who has a flat not very 
far from the scene of action. I have never met 
her, but she offered to put up a member for the 
deputation; such is the esprit de corps of the 
rapidly increasing family party who serve under 
the purple, white, and green. 

I had lunch to-day with a friend, who evidently 
invited me for the sole purpose of dissuading me 
from my intention of going in the deputation. 
She pointed out to me that there was every chance 
of being killed or seriously injured, and said that 
it was not fair to my husband and the boys. 

I wish she had not talked like that; it has made 
me feel unsettled and worried, without doing any 
good, and after all, one might just as well be killed 
in a railway accident as in a deputation. 

After leaving her house I went to the Suffra- 
gette Committee Room to say " Good-bye " to 
the organiser. She wished me luck, and so did 
one or two others who were there. 

" Do not forget," said Miss M , " that at 

five o'clock every afternoon we shall all be think- 
ing of you. One of our prisoners told us it helped 
her wonderfully, that she does not think she would 
have got through the two months without it, just 
knowing for a few moments every day that her 
friends who understood were thinking of her. 
You wiU know when it is five o'clock in Holloway, 
because a bell rings then." 

I shall certainly remember. How kind they all 
are! 

I let the boys sit up later than usual, on account 
of it being my last night, and told them stories 



56 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

partly to distract my own thoughts. About half 
an hour after they had gone to bed the maid came 
in looking rather alarmed to say that two police- 
men had come, and wanted to see me. 

" Surely," I reflected, " even a Liberal Govern- 
ment cannot arrest one beforehand because one 
contemplates going in a deputation." 

She had shown them in the dining-room, so I 
walked in there, trying to look unconcerned. They 
explained that the boys had been firing a toy pistol 
through the back garden, and some of the pellets 
had struck the window of a doctor's house opposite, 
so he had sent a complaint to the police station. 

The relief of finding that their visit had nothing 
to do with political agitations made me treat the 
incident of the shooting as a good joke, particularly 
as no harm had been done, the pistol in question 
being a toy air-gun. I said I was very sorry, and 
that I would see that the gun was not used again 
except in the house, adding that I hoped none of 
the doctor's patients had been killed while they 
were waiting in the consulting-room. 

" No one was hurt, madam," said the policeman, 
quite solemnly, " as the pellets did not break the 
window." Clearly he had a small sense of humour. 

After a few moments' pleasant conversation, 
they said " Good evening," and left. What an 
excellent story this would make for the " antis." 

" While a Suffragette woman, who ought to 
have been looking after her home, was occupied 
with politics, her neglected boys were spending 
their time risking their own lives and those of the 
neighbours, by shooting peas from a two-and- 
sixpenny rifle." 



Tages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 57 

Oh! I do wish it was the day after to-morrow. 
Meanwhile, I shall go to bed. 

June 29TH. 

I am almost ashamed to admit the fact, even to 
my diary, but I am feeling horribly frightened. I 
positively dread the prospect of this deputation 
to-night. I am sorry to be so cowardly and unworthy 
of the splendid women who will be my companions 
in the fight; but when I think of the London 
crowd and the mounted police I feel cold and a 
little sick with apprehension. However, I shall 
not dwell on my feelings, but will briefly relate the 

events of the day. As Miss M has so often 

impressed on me : " In a movement of this kind 
what one feels does not count." 

I arrived at St. Pancras in time to drive here, 
have a short talk with my hostess, and go off to a 
meeting held by Mrs. Pankhurst for members of 
the deputation only. I find that my hostess, 
besides being a member of our Union, is a theoso- 
phist and a keen anti-vivisectionist, so if I were 
staying here longer we might have many interesting 
talks. 

She had a business engagement this afternoon, 
so, during her absence, I am sitting in my room 
writing. A charwoman, who comes twice a week 
to do the rough work of the flat, has just been in 
and had a little talk with me. She bitterly regrets 
not being able to join the deputation herself, but 
explained, apologetically, that as she had to support 
her husband and children she could not afford to 
lose her place, and the people she worked for 
would not employ her again if she had been in 



58 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

prison. She wished me luck, and expressed the 
hope that I would not be very badly knocked about. 

" It will be a rough crowd, miss, I fear," she 
said, by way of encouragement; " you will not wear 
a dress you mind about getting torn." 

I assured her that the dress I intended to wear 
might be sacrificed in the interests of the Cause, 
but added that I, too, sincerely hoped it would not 
be so very bad. 

" They do say," she observed, " that the Govern- 
ment have sent to Wales and Whitechapel for the 
roughest set of policemen they can find for to- 
night, because most of the others know Mrs. 
Pankhurst too well now and are on her side, so the 
Suffragettes gets arrested too easy. Anyhow, I 
hope as how no one will be killed." 

Having cheered me up with these few words of 
encouragement, the woman has now gone off to 
finish her work, so I will try to describe the meeting 
for members which I attended this morning. 

When I reached the place, I found a long. queue 
of women waiting outside for the door to be 
opened. I was much struck by the splendid 
organisation. Although there were at least 140 
of us, each one received typewritten instructions 
explaining most clearly exactly what we were to do. 
I will not try to describe Mrs. Pankhurst's speech, 
beyond saying that I shall remember it always, 
and the strange impressiveness of the scene. She 
told us that a new stage in the women's agitation 
had now been reached. Hitherto, the Suffragettes 
had quietly submitted to being treated as common 
criminals for political offences (if, indeed, they 
could be called off^ences at all). Now, however, 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 59 

we were to make a protest against this, for the sake 
of political prisoners in the future. The oppor- 
tunity was a good one, for there would probably be 
over 100 of us in HoUoway to-morrow, and unity 
is strength. 

She told us exactly what she wanted us to do. 
We were to refuse to wear prison clothes or to 
scrub out our cells, and as a protest against 
insufficient air in the cells we were to wait till a bell 
rang at i p.m. the first day, and then each of us 
must carefially, with the heel of a shoe, break a 
pane of glass in her window. She explained that, 
on our arrival at Holloway, we must stand together 
and refuse to o-o to our cells until we had seen the 
governor. If we were forcibly taken to the cells, 
we must refuse to be medically examined or to 
wear the prison clothes. If undressed by force and 
our own clothes removed, we must undress and 
get to bed. She made it very clear that we were 
to be polite always to the wardresses and everyone 
with whom we came in contact, that having always 
been our policy, that ovir strongest weapon was 
passive resistance and endurance, whatever the 
cost to ourselves. 

Each detail was thought out and carefully ex- 
plained. I could not help being struck by the fact 
that though everyone knew it would be very much 
easier to quietly submit to second division treat- 
ment, yet all were ready to do as she wished. 

" We shall be given solitary confinement," said 
Mrs. Pankhurst; "we shall be put in punishment 
cells, probably'in different prisons. As for me, I don't 
know where I shall be put, but wherever we arc, 
whatever happens, in spirit we shall be together." 



6o Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

As I looked round the room at the bright, happy 
faces of the women, such sweet, womanly, gentle 
women — a great sense of pity came to me, for the 
blind obstinacy of the Prime Minister who thinks 
to check a Movement of this sort by physical force, 
tyranny, and misrepresentation. 

" Why," I reflected, " could he not have re- 
ceived this one deputation courteously as he 
receives deputations of men, and thus obviate the 
necessity for all this ? " 

Before leaving the hall, we were each given 
type-written instructions on a sheet of paper. 
Mine are as follows : At 6 p.m. to-night I am to 
find my way to certain offices in Parliament Street, 
the address of which is given, where I am to 
remain in seclusion until 8.40 p.m., when, in 
company with five other women, whose names are 
given on the paper, I am to leave, by the Parlia- 
ment Street entrance, walk towards Parliament 
Square, and endeavour to force my way through 
the carriage entrance to the House of Commons. 

It has been arranged on this occasion that we are 
to go in a series of deputations, not one of which 
is to exceed eight in number, as in accordance with 
the Bill of Rights; thus deputations, numbering 
from six to eight delegates, will start from different 
directions at intervals of about fifteen minutes 
during the evening, the result of which should be 
somewhat baffling to the police. We are to carry 
nothing in our hands except the resolution to the 
Prime Minister. There is also a note to say that 
if arrested we shall be bailed out for the night by 
Mr. Pethick Lawrence, and advising us to find 
out the most direct route home from Westminster. 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 6i 

I talked to several of the women while waiting 
for my instructions. They all seemed quite pre- 
pared for the fact that they may be killed to-night, 
quite happy just to be helping the Cause, and 
cheerfully ready for the extra ordeal of the revolt 
in prison. 

Women of all ages were there and of different 
types. What impressed me most was their mutual 
love for each other and for the leaders of the 
movement, also the expression in their eyes, which 
I cannot describe better than the " Suffragette 
eyes," the look of people who are seeing beyond 
what is happening around them. University girls, 
hospital nurses, women who had spent their time 
and money working among the poor and fallen till 
the conviction came to them that until women 
could claim the rights of citizenship little could 
be done in this direction, and so threw in their lot 
with the W.S.P.U. 

One old lady of 79 interested me particularly by 
her conversaton. 

I shall not write any more now, as I want to 
collect my things. Mrs. Pankhurst told us to 
bring a small bag to the police court to-morrow, 
with a change of clothes, in case of first division 
treatment. The rest of my belongings I shall leave 
here until I come out of prison. 
2 a.m. 

I have been bailed out for the night. To- 
morrow at 10 o'clock I must be at Bow Street to 
answer to a charge of obstructing the police. 

It really is very fiinny, and I cannot get away 
from the ludicrous side of it; but oh ! how thankfril 
I was to get arrested. I must quickly scribble 



62 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

down what happened and get to bed, for to-morrow 
night I shall be In a cell. I can hardly realise it. 

To begin at the beginning, my hostess accom- 
panied me as far as the office in Parliament Square. 
On the way there she remarked how- brave- she 
thought I was to go on the deputation. I am 
sure she would have felt less admiration for my 
courage if she had known how dreadfully 
frightened I was feeling, though I managed to 
conceal the fact. As we got near the battle-field, 
although it was not yet 6 o'clock, lines of police- 
men and mounted police were to be seen every- 
where, and fresh relays coming along the street. 
I heard the 'bus conductor say to a passenger : 
" It's on account of the Suffragettes. There's 
going to be a big row to-night." 

There were placards up in several places : 
" Serious warning to the public. Grave danger 
in coming to Parliament Square to-night." 

When we reached the office I found it already 
half full of extremely cheerful-looking Suffra- 
gettes. We had to speak softly and keep away 
from the windows in case of attracting the attention 
of the police, who, if they had suspected our 
presence there, would have svirrounded the house 
and prevented us from getting out. 

If there is one thing that I find more trying 
than another it is anticipation, and the prospect of 
remaining in that room for nearly three hours was 
too much for me, so I persuaded one girl to go 
out with me for a stroll. We did not wear our 
colours, so were allowed to walk about, though 
watched suspiciously if we got too near Parliament 
Square. 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 63 

To help to pass the time we had some tea in a 
shop. " I am feeling dreadfully hot," observed 
my companion. " It comes of wearing all this 
cotton wool." 

"What, cotton wool.'' " I asked, in surprise. 

" Well, you see, I have padded myself well with 
cotton wool and put cardboard outside that. I 
have been in deputations before, and I do not 
intend to get my ribs broken this time." 

" Good heavens, surely it is not so rough as all 
that! " 

"Wait till you try it," she said, as she calmly 
spread some butter on a roll. 

" You have been in prison ? " I said. " Did 
you mind it much ? " 

" Oh, no ! You will get through that all right. 
It is the crowd I dislike." 

By this time I was feeling rather cold, possibly 
with apprehension; besides, I was not padded. 

" Look here," I said, " will you go arm in arm 
with me on the deputation.? Let's hold on to 
each other, and not let go. I should not like us 
to get separated in that crowd." 

My new friend " laughed bitterly," as the Daily 
Mail would express it. " Separated ! Of course 
we shall get separated. We may start together, 
but after the first few moments none of us will see 
each other again till we meet in the police court." 

I did not answer. The crowd was every moment 
getting bigger. Presently we returned to the 
office, which was now quite full. The blinds were 
drawn down, and two men who were with us 
warned us not to approach the window. I shall 
never forget that time. One man, who had a 



64 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

watch in his hand, told each deputation when the 
time had come for them to go, whereupon they 
would start, with the whispered good wishes of 
us all. 

It seemed as if our time would never come. 
" I think your watch must have stopped," I said 
once. " It seems hours since the last deputation 
left." 

The man smiled and said the watch was all 
right. 

" It will be a blot on English history," he re- 
marked presently, "the way the British Govern- 
ment has treated the women who were asking for 
the rights of citizenship." 

The noise in the street increased, till I felt as if 
I were taking a part in a scene from the French 
Revolution. One could hardly realise that it was 
real. Occasionally someone would peep through 
the blind and exclaim softly : " The mounted 
police are clearing the street! Oh, someone is 
hurt ! No, it is only an arrest." And so on. 

" I am thankful that some have been arrested," 
said my companion. " There was a report that the 
Government had given strict orders they were not 
to arrest us, in which case, of course, the chance 
of not being seriously hurt would be small. How- 
ever, I daresay the police are afraid of the crowd 
to-night. It has been so well organised for weeks 
that nearly all the people are with us, and there are 
a great many." 

Suddenly I thought of the old lady whom I 
had spoken to in the morning, so fragile, but with 
so much courage, alone out there. Kneeling 
beside the window, I shut my eyes and prayed that 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 65 

no harm would come to her. A few moments later 
I heard someone exclaim : " The old lady has been 
arrested ! She is all right ! " After that all sense 
of fear left me, and I was only conscious of a 
longing to be in the fight doing something to help. 
From where I knelt I could see through the 
window by raising the blind an inch or two, and 
one after another I watched the prisoners being 
marched between two policemen and surrounded 
by two or four others towards the police station. 
No one seemed to have been much hurt. 

At last our turn came. Someone pressed my 
hand and whispered " Godspeed " as I passed. 

Silently we wended our way down the narrow 
staircase and into the street, my friend and I who 
were last holding each other tightly by the arm, 
determined to stick together as long as humanly 
possible. The crowd round the door was so dense 
that we had a little difficulty in forcing our way 
out. Instantly a shout went up as the colours 
were recognised; cheers and encouraging remarks 
greeted us. " Here are some more Suffragettes ! 
Go on, miss; you're all right; get through them," 
etc., while one woman's voice pleaded : " Don't 
go, miss. You'll have a rough time there." 

On we went. The crowd was enormous. It 
almost took one off one's feet. For some moments 
I clung tightly to the arm of my companion, the 
others being already lost to sight; but her pre- 
diction proved only too true. A force which we 
were powerless to resist tore us apart, and I saw 
no more of her or any of the others till we met in 
the police court. 

Meanwhile I moved on towards Parliament 



66 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

Square, helped by the pushing, eager crowd, until 
I saw a line of mounted police advancing towards 
me and stretching right across the road from one 
end to the other, including the pavements. As 
they came they cleared the streets before them, 
sweeping the crowd backward on to us — the crowd 
but not the Suffragettes. One and all those women 
must have forced their way through, for there were 
none among the people being forcibly driven back 
on to us. 

Noticing a small space between two of the 
horses, I ran forward and attempted to push 
through. Instantly they closed on me, and another 
horse barred my way. I seemed to be wedged 
between prancing, backing horses, evidently bent 
on trampling me to death, though in reality I 
daresay well trained to act their part. 

I kept my face towards the House of Commons 
and struggled on conscious only of one fervent 
prayer to the Power at the back of the universe to 
protect and keep my brave companions and bring 
them all safely through this night. 

Presently two rows of police on foot, who were 
following up behind the mounted men, pressed 
forward. I felt my arms seized on either side by 
very strong hands, and forcibly I was dragged 
almost off my feet right through the horses back 
to the other side. For a brief moment I thought 
that these policemen, seeing my peril, had done 
this to save my life, but as they kept a firm hold 
of my arms I realised with a feeling of inexpres- 
sible thankfiilness that we were walking in the 
direction of Cannon Row Police Station. 

To make sure I addressed the man who was 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 67 

holding my right arm. " Have you arrested me ? " 
I asked him, very politely. 

" Yes, miss," he replied, " and a good job too, 
to get out of that crowd. You wasn't hurt, was 
yo^x} " 

" Not at all. I have only been in there quite a 
short time." I wanted to say how very grateful I 
felt to him for having arrested me like that at sight, 
but did not quite like to. The irony of it all is 
that the papers will probably report that I 
struggled, bit, and scratched in order to escape. 
It will always be a mystery to me why the public 
have so long believed those reports. When I 
remember how absolutely powerless I felt in the 
grasp of two exceptionally big and strong men, 
backed by three or four others who walked along- 
side, how worse than useless it would have been 
to attempt to move, far less struggle, on account 
of the way my arms and wrists were being held. 
When in addition to this one reflects that a Suffra- 
gette's life practically depends on the protection of 
the Metropolitan police, and that her ambition 
invariably is to get arrested as quickly as possible, 
the absurdity of supposing that she would be so 
foolish as to strike or kick the man who, apart 
from the fact that he is her best friend, is so very 
much stronger than herself, is surely too obvious 
to require further comment. 

" Are you on our side in this Movement .'' " I 
asked, as we walked along. 

" On your side, miss ? " exclaimed the man on 
my right. " Of course I am on your side; we all 
are. Didn't I hear Miss Christabel at Peckham? 
Is she here to-night .'' " 



68 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

« No," I replied. " We can't all go to Hollo- 
way; and she is too badly wanted outside. A 
good many of us are here, though— one hundred 
and fifty or so, I think." 

" Well, there's five or six thousand of us, any- 
how," he observed, " so it will be all right." 

" I'm wearing your colours, miss," said the 
man who was holding my left arm, " the badge, 
I mean; it's inside my helmet." 

On our arrival at the police station we entered 
a large room filled with Suffragette prisoners 
cheerfully discussing politics with the policemen 
who had arrested them. The place reminded me 
somewhat of a custom house abroad. We all had 
to walk in turn past a table, at which a man was 
sitting with a pen in his hand making a note of 
our names, ages, and addresses, also of the charges 
brought against us. 

Clearly he had not much sense of humour. A 
sweet-looking and extremely fragile little girl with 
fluffy hair, who gave her age as 21, though she 
looked less, was passed not long before me. 

" What is the charge .■* " he inquired, grufHy, of 
the very tall policeman who accompanied her. 

" The prisoner assaulted me and knocked off 
my helmet," said the man, solemnly. 

At this point I caught the eye of the little girl, 
and we both laughed. It was so very funny. 

She made no remark when a paper was filled in 
charging her with having assaulted the police. 
Perceiving that this was the sort of evidence they 
were all giving, I asked the little girl why she had 
not denied the charge. 

" It is a sort of understood thing," she explained, 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 69 

" that if the police will help us by arresting us on 
sight, as they have been doing to-night, we will 
not contradict anything they may say as an excuse 
for having done so. They do help us splendidly 
now that they understand," she added, " and it 
would never do to annoy them in any way. Be- 
sides, what does it matter what people believe ? " 

I walked up to my policeman, who was discuss- 
ing the advantages of ju-jitsu with another 
prisoner, and asked him if he would do me a great 
fevour. 

" Yes, miss, of course I will," he said, pleasantly. 

" I want you to promise not to say that I 
scratched your face or knocked off your helmet. 
Of course you must say something, but please 
not that." 

The officer of the law reflected for a moment. 
" Very well, miss, I'll not say that, if you like." 

When my turn came I wondered for a moment 
whether my friend would keep his promise, and if 
so, what he would accuse me of. 

" The prisoner refused to turn back when told 
to," he announced, " but forced her way through, 
and seizing one of the horses by the bridle, led it 
towards the House of Commons." 

I was too much astonished by this story to make 
any remark, when the man at the table observed 
that it was a serious charge and an extremely 
dangerous thing to do. 

Having passed through this " custom house," 
we were all taken to an enormous billiard-room 
upstairs, where we remained until Mr. Pethick 
Lawrence came to bail us out. Anyone would 
have supposed it was a big " At Home," and Mrs. 



70 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

Pankhurst the hostess. We sang Suffragette songs 
and compared notes as to our experiences. 

Outside, thousands of police were collecting and 
preparing to disperse. One girl leant out of the 
window and called : " Three cheers for the Metro- 
politan police! " which were heartily given. 

I soon discovered that, although there had been 
no serious casualties owing to the splendid be- 
haviour of the majority of the police, compara- 
tively few of the women had got off quite so easily 
as myself. Many were covered with bruises; 
some had been repeatedly knocked down owing to 
having been in a hostile part of the crowd or 
having come in contact with the new policemen 
who " did not understand," as predicted by the 
charwoman. It was very late before we were all 
bailed out. I was one of the last to receive a 
piece of paper, which I shall always keep, sum- 
moning me to appear at Bow Street to-morrow to 
answer to a charge of obstructing the police. Quite 
near Parliament Square I was lucky enough to 
meet a belated hansom, which I hailed and drove 
home. Thus has ended the most alarming experi- 
ence I have ever had in my life. 

June 30TH. 

It still seems quite incredible, but here I am 
back again. Our case has been remanded for a 
week. I shall briefly record the events of the 
day, as the hour is late and I am looking forward 
to a good night's sleep. My hostess accompanied 
me to Bow Street, the route being as yet unfamiliar 
to me, and we started in good time. I was carry- 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 71 

ing a small bag, as per instructions, containing a 
change of clothes, etc. 

When we were settled in the 'bus I remarked to 
my friend that on this occasion anyhow the papers 
could not possibly say anything against our be- 
haviour or describe us as disorderly. 

" Oh, yes, they will," she said, smiling. " They 
always do. The women were no more disorderly 
last time than this." 

Scarcely had she said the words when my eyes 
fell on a poster outside a newsagent's shop. On 
it was written in large letters : 

"RAID OF THE FURIES. DEMENTED 

SUFFRAGETTES RUSH THE HOUSE OF 

COMMONS." 

We both laughed. I do not know why I did. 
I was not feeling amused. A sense of the hope- 
lessness of ever making people understand came 
over me like a sort of wave. A lady sitting 
opposite to us was reading a paper. I glanced at 
it and could see the same headlines. 

" When you have finished," I said, gently, " I 
wonder if you would be so kind as to let me read 
that paper ? I am one of the ' Furies ' who raided 
the House of Commons, and I would like to see 
myself as others see me." 

She laughed, and handed it to me. " They do 
put a lot of nonsense in the Press," she remarked. 
As I went on reading I felt my face getting 
crimson. " You know this is not true ! " I began, 
hotly. " You know we did not do these things ! " 

" Yes," she said, quietly, " I was there." 

Then we all three talked shop comfortably for 



72 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

the remainder of the drive, oblivious of all other 
passengers. 

Outside Bow Street a crowd had collected, and 
the prisoners were standing in a long queue wait- 
ing to be admtted. It was a strange sight. A 
man with a camera wKo was taking snapshots 
asked me to point out the old lady to him, but I 
could not see her. 

After some delay we were admitted, but not 
actually into the police court; we remained either 
in the hall, which we almost filled, or in the court- 
yard outside, and there we spent the greater part 
of the day. 

It was a most interesting scene. Inside the hall 
the women either talked in groups or scribbled 
farewell notes, while husbands, brothers, and 
friends, some of whom had come in motor-cars, 
arrived to say " Good-bye " or to take letters to 
the post. In the courtyard were to be seen groups 
of women, some singing in chorus the pretty 
Suffragette songs, while others talked to police- 
men, for everywhere were the police watching the 
proceedings with friendly interest. Outside the 
police court Black Marias were waiting to convey 
the prisoners in relays to HoUoway, while crowds 
of interested spectators thronged the streets ready 
to cheer at the sight of the colours. 

I was again very much struck by the attitude of 
the police, and made a point of talking to as many of 
them as possible, for there was plenty of time, and 
I was anxious to get the views of as large a number 
of them as possible. Among all those I spoke 
to only one was an " anti." He remarked drily : 
"Well, I can't say that I admire your methods," 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 73 

I replied that we had not come here to agitate 
for his admiration, but for the vote. 

" Well, do you suppose you will get it by doing 
this sort of thing ? " he asked. 

" I daresay we shall have to do considerably 
more," I admitted, " but we certainly will not get 
it by doing less." 

Every other man was friendly. One said : 
" Who do you reckon is your worst enemy in this 
movement, miss.'' " 

" Mr. Asquith, I suppose," I replied. 

" Well, it's not him, it's the Press. The papers 
never tells the truth about these deputations." 

Just then I noticed Mrs. Pankhurst talking to 
Inspector Jarvis, who appeared to be extremely 
friendly. " The papers say that she assaulted 
him," I said, glancing in their direction. 

The policeman laughed loud. " That is just 
what they would say," he remarked. " It would 
have been an honour for him if she had," said 
another. 

Hours passed, and still we were not summoned 
for trial. 

" When do you think our case will be heard ? " 
I asked of a tall policeman who was guarding the 
door. 

" Can't say, miss. I'm tired myself. It's night 
and day duty for us when you ladies has these 
raids; but you'll be in the cells before long now, 
for sure." 

" I'm very sorry," I replied; " but anyhow, you 
don't have to go to HoUoway when it is over." 

" You're right there, miss, and I don't mind 
telling you I would not go to prison in the second 



74 Fages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

division for a month not for any Cause, and I can't 
think how you ladies comes and does it again and 
again." 

" In the meantime I would like very much to 
go out and have a cup of tea," I said, pleasantly. 
"Don't you think I might go, just for a short 
time ? " He glanced at me, and hesitated. " I 
am a Suffragette," I added. " You know what 
Suffragettes are like. I will not run away." 

" That's true, miss, and there is a shop of 
Lyons's just a few doors down the street on your 
left." 

I thanked him warmly and hurried off. As I 
entered the restaurant I perceived that the tables 
seemed almost all taken, and the place full of people 
having lunch. I stood for a moment in the door- 
way, hesitating. 

Instantly every man and woman stood up and 
cheered, the men in most cases waving their hats, 
and all looking straight at me. Much embarrassed 
and presuming that I had been mistaken for Mrs. 
Pankhurst or someone else, I hastened to a small 
empty table with two chairs and sat down. 

A few moments later, however, another prisoner 
came in, and exactly the same thing happened, so 
I realised that they knew by our colours that we 
were members of the deputation and were express- 
ing their sympathy. 

The newcomer, who sat at my table opposite me, 
informed me that our case would not be heard for 
another hour, so when we had finished our repast 
we decided to go for a short walk down the 
Embankment. 

" I wonder why they are delaying so long over 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 75 

hearing our case ?" I said to my companion. 

" Well," she replied, " I hear that most of the 
morning has been spent trying cases of petty 
thefts which occurred last night in London during 
the absence of the whole police force, which was 
occupied in protecting the Cabinet Ministers from 
us." 

That solution of the problem had not occurred 
to me. 

A boy was selling papers as we passed out of 
Lyons's shop. He held one out. " Full account 
of Suffragette prisoners at Bow Street," he shouted. 
" Scenes in court." 

" We are two of the prisoners," I explained, 
" so we know what they are doing, which is very 
little so far." 

As I said this, two men who were near took off 
their hats and stood with them in their hands till 
we passed. It was the same most of the way 
along. We met smiles of encouragement and saw 
handkerchiefs waved by all classes of people as 
they caught sight of our colours, and knew what 
they meant. 

On our return to Bow Street we were informed 
that Mrs. Pankhurst and Mrs. Haverfield were 
being tried, so our turn would come soon now. 
We waited for some time longer, and then were 
told that the case was to be adjourned for a week, 
as the Magistrate wanted time to enable him to 
reply to some points raised by Mrs. Haverfield's 
counsel. 

Accordingly we were all allowed to leave the 
Court, the further hearing of the case being fixed 
for Friday, July 9th, at 10.30 a.m. 



76 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

I was much impressed by the fact that without 
bail, without even taking down our addresses, the 
Magistrate dismissed us all, taking the word of 
one woman, Mrs. Pankhurst, that we would not 
fail to appear for trial on the appointed date. I 
hurried to the nearest Post Office and telegraphed 
to a friend at Hastings that I would arrive next 
week and spend a week. 

As r passed some carts with fruit and vegetables 
for sale, an old woman standing behind one, seeing 
my colours, stopped me to ask anxiously what the 
Suffragettes' sentence had been. 

" The case has been remanded for a week," I 
explained. 

" Pm glad of that, anyhow," said the old 
woman. 

A man standing beside her took a clay pipe out 
of his mouth and said : " This Government is 
mad, that's what it is." After which announce- 
ment he continued to smoke placidly. 

On my return, I was received with rejoicing by 
my kind hostess, and we discussed the political 
situation at great length. Now I really must go to 
bed. 

July 4TH. 

I am having a splendid time with my friends in 
Hastings, enjoying the respite of a week off duty 
by the seaside, not to mention motoring and pic- 
nics. When I say off duty, I must not overlook 
the fact that I have sold five dozen copies of Votes 
for Women along the Parade. 

It took three days, but I have disposed of them 
all. As is inevitable when employed in this sort 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 77 

of work, I encountered many " antis " and much 
criticism and contempt, but on the whole I did 
not have a very bad time, once I had got over the 
first horrible ordeal of walking through the town 
carrying an armful of papers and wearing the 
regalia of purple, white, and green. 

As I passed the General Post Office an old 
gentleman hurried out with a handful of letters. 
He paused a moment at sight of me, so I held 
out a paper, showing the cartoon on the outside. 

" Will you buy a copy of Votes for Women," 
I asked. " Full account of the deputation to the 
Prime Minister; one penny." 

He glared at me. 

" Madam," he said coldly, " I consider that 
women are women when they remain in their own 
place, and that is in their home." 

With these words he walked on and posted the 
letters, feeling, I am sure, that Tie had crushed me 
and the entire Movement with the force of his 
logic. At that moment I caught the eye of a 
cabman who had overheard the conversation. He 
did not exactly wink, but he somehow conveyed 
to me by his expression that he shared my views, 
both as regards Woman's Suffrage and the old 
gentleman, for which I felt really grateful. 

It would take too long to record all the con- 
versations I held with my various customers, con- 
sidering that for every person who bought a copy, 
at least ten met my request with more or less 
disdainful refusals. In many cases I found myself 
ready with a suitable and crushing rejoinder, but 
as a rule I received jeers or criticism in silence. 

Not so my friend, Mrs. R , who accom- 



78 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

panied me one morning to the extreme discomfort 
of my opponents. I shall never forget her com- 
ments, always made in a clear and loud voice. 
When an old gentleman waved my paper aside 
with an irritable "Votes for Women, indeed; we 
don't want any more women " ; she exclaimed : 

" Evidently this person supposes that to give 
votes to a few women would create others; that is 
at least a new light upon the subject." 

A few moments later a girl informed me that she 

did not vote for women, whereupon Mrs. R 

asked her whether she voted for men, adding that 
she was glad to hear that she had a vote, anyhow. 
Once, when a man told me to " go ^ome and look 
after the biby," she remarked : " There is no use in 
offering the paper to trippers; do talk to people 
with some signs of intelligence." 

As Mrs. R (who is not a Suffragette) was 

not wearing the colours, none of these people had 
connected her with me, though we were walking 
alongside most of the time, so were all the more 
taken aback by her scornful remarks, and generally 
remained staring after us in silent and open- 
mouthed amazement. 

A gentleman who was leaning back on a deck 
chair on the Parade held out his hand for a paper as 
I passed. When I handed him one he remarked 
that I ought not to charge a penny but should 
give it to hifti for nothing if I really wanted to help 
the Cause. I replied that as I was already giving 
my time and the greater part of my income and the 
whole of my reputation to help this Cause, I had 
felt that he could give a penny towards it. 

" However," I added, " since you cannot afford 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 79 

it, I will very gladly buy this copy myself and give 
it to you." 

He said nothing, but he handed me a penny. 

The next man to whom I offered the paper re- 
marked that he had no desire to read anything 
about Suffragettes; what he saw in the papers was 
quite enough for him. 

" But," I explained, " the papers write about 
things which we never did, whereas this will give 
you an accurate account of our deputation to the 
Prime Minister last Tuesday. It is very interest- 
ing, and I know it is true, because I was there." 

He looked at me contemptuously. 

" I'd rather believe the papers," he said, shortly. 

The extreme insolence of his tone made me 
angry. So after looking him up and down for 
several moments in complete silence, I said, slowly : 
" Yes, I should imagine that you most probably 
would." 

I was glad to see him crumple up a little. 

The women, on the whole, were worse than the 
men; but obviously from ignorance of the whole 
subject. One old lady informed me that she dis- 
liked Suffragettes, so I smiled, pleasantly, and 
asked her why. 

" Because I think women ought to stay at 
home; it's their place," she replied. 

" Then are you prepared to support the millions 
of women who have to leave their homes to work 
for their living, also to give homes to the others 
who have none.'"' I inquired. "Because if not, 
how can they stay at home, even if they want to ?" 

She turned her back on me and walked away, 
which can scarcely be called an argument. 



8o Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

A few moments later I offered a paper to a man 
who seemed to want one, explaining that it con- 
tained a full account of the deputation, adding that 
I could vouch for the truth of it as I was one of 
them and was now on remand. 

" Are you ?" he said. " Well, I hope you will 
get three months." 

I could think of no suitable reply to this, so 
smiled pleasantly and walked on. 

I am glad they are all sold, as I can now enjoy 
life peacefully till next Thursday. 

July 8th. 

I wish that the people who imagine the cause of 
Woman's Suffrage is being retarded by the militant 
methods could have been present in the St. James's 
Hall to-night. I returned from Hastings in time 
to attend the evening meeting there, as I had re- 
ceived a letter from Clement's Inn asking me to 
come, if possible, and to wear white. I was seated 
in the orchestra behind the platform along with the 
rest of the prisoners, all except those who were 
working at the Cleveland Election and could not 
get away in time. We almost completely filled 
the seats. 

It was a wonderfLil meeting. I certainly have 
never seen such enthusiasm before. The hall was 
absolutely packed, so that an overflow meeting had 
to be held elsewhere for several hundred people. 

When Mrs. Pankhurst stood up the cheering 
and clapping was so prolonged that I feared she 
would never be able to speak at all. When at 
last they stopped, she explained that she had just 
returned from working at Cleveland, and that she 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 8i 

had heard Mr. Samuel, the Liberal Candidate, 
allude to the members of our deputation as the 
" Wild Women of Westminster," whose be- 
haviour was putting back the Cause. " These," 
said Mrs. Pankhurst, indicating the orchestra, 
where we were all seated, dressed in white, with 
the purple, white, and green regarlia. " These 
are the Wild Women of Westminster. What do 
you think of them?" 

Instantly the cheers and clapping began again 
louder than ever, and men stood on their seats 
waving their hats. 

Just before the meeting began Mrs. Pankhurst 
had received a letter from Miss Wallace Dunlop, 
the girl who was sentenced to one month's im- 
prisonment in the second division for stamping on 
the walls of the House of Commons with indelible 
ink an extract from the Bill of Rights : " It is the 
right of the subject to petition the King, and all 
commitments and prosecutions for such petitioning 
are illegal." 

This was her third imprisonment, and she de- 
cided to try the effect of a hunger strike as a 
protest against second division treatment for 
political offences, with the result that she was re- 
leased to-day, after ninety-one hours' starvation, 

Mrs Pankhurst read her letter aloud. It des- 
cribed how they tried to make her eat by offering 
her tempting food. Finally, the doctor threatened 
to feed her through the nostrils, and she said : 

" You may do so for a month, but supposing you 
get 1 08 women in here on Friday, all requiring to 
be fed through the nostrils, your hands will be 
fUll." 



82 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

" At thisj" she wrote, " the doctor's face was a 
study." 

She ended her letter by wishing us all luck, and 
regretting her inability to be with us to-night on 
accoXint of feeling rather weak. 

If it had been possible to exceed the enthusiasm 
shown before, the audience would have done it 
now; and whfen Mrs. Pankhurst asked for three 
cheers for the bravest woman in England, they 
were given in such a way as almost to have per- 
suaded Mr. Asquith even that there are some 
people in favour of Woman's Suffrage. 

I will not attempt to describe the speeches. 
Suffice it to say that the net result of our deputa- 
tion last week has been an added membership of 
ninety-three women, the sympathy and support of 
a large number of men, who confessed to having 
taken no interest in the movement before they saw 
wha:t happened in Parliament Square on June 29th, 
also subscriptions amounting to ;^ 1,300 in one 
week, and the sale of the paper raised from 25,000 
to 50,000 copies. One person after another stood 
up to offer so much money for the Cause for each 
of the 108 prisoners. 

When the time came for questions to be asked, 
one man protested against all the prisoners who 
were on remand till to-morrow having to follow 
Miss Dunlop's example and go through the ordeal 
of a hunger strike, adding that in his experience 
the women he had met did not want the vote. 

There were shouts of " Then I'm sorry for you," 
and " Sit down," from men among the audience, 
and when quiet was restored Mrs. Pankhurst ex- 
plained that such a course might not be necessary. 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 83 

but if it were, we were all prepared to follow where 
Miss Dunlop had led the way. 

With that exception, there were no protests or 
criticisms of any sort, and as I left the hall in com- 
pany with my hostess, the hospitality of whose 
flat I am once more enjoying, I realised more than 
I have ever done before the underlying strength 
of this Movement and the futility of attempting to 
stop the militant methods by treating as common 
criminals women of gentle birth and high ideals, 
who look upon imprisonment in this Cause as 
the highest honour they could obtain. 

July 9TH. 

In this world it is generally the most unexpected 
thing which happens. After another long day, 
spent at Bow Street Police Court, I am once again 
back in my hostess's flat. 

This time, for some reason or other, the police 
refused to let us break the monotony by going out. 
I tried to persuade one to let me pass, by saying 
that I was hungry and wanted some lunch, but 
he " wasn't taking any," and replied that a man 
from Lyons's shop was coming in for orders, and 
I could get what I wanted inside. Meanwhile, 
the case against Mrs. Pankhurst and Mrs. 
Haverfield was being heard. But as the prisoners 
were almost sufficient in number to fill the Court, 
we had to remain in another part of the building, 
where we could not hear what Was going on. 

At last, just as our patience was becoming ex- 
hausted, Christabel Pankhurst came in and explained 
the situation to us. The Magistrate, she said. 



84 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

had passed a provisional sentence on Mrs. Pank- 
hurst and Mrs. Haverfield of a fine of five pounds 
or a month's imprisonment in the second division. 
He had, however, consented to state a case for a 
higher Court, as suggested by Lord Robert Cecil, 
in view of the importance of the constitutional 
issue, on a point of law raised by the defendants, 
namely, the right of the women to present the 
petition to Mr. Asquith. 

The result of this decision is that we shall all 
be on remand until the further hearing of the case, 
which may very probably be postponed till Novem- 
ber or December. She assured us, however, that 
we should find plenty of work for the Cause 
waiting us outside, which I do not for a moment 
doubt. Meanwhile, we are free to go our several 
ways, all, that is to say, except fourteen women, 
who were accused of throwing stones in addition 
to obstructing the police. Their case is to be 
tried on Monday. 

I spoke to one or two of them to-day, as I 
wanted to hear their point of view. Personally, 
I think that stone-throwing is a mistake, and pre- 
fer the policy carried out till now of hurting no 
person or property; but far be it from me to judge 
anyone, least of all women who are members of 
this Union. The day may come when I shall 
consider stone-throwing right and justifiable. If 
it does, I shall record the fact in my diary. 

The woman I asked about it was extremely 
unmilitant looking. No one would have supposed 
that under any circumstances she would have done 
such a thing. She explained, quietly, that she had 
ah-eady been in prison for this Cause, that she felt 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 85 

the time had come for a further protest, and ever 
since windows had been invented, men had looked 
upon breaking them as a very mild form of political 
protest. One of the Cabinet Ministers has said 
to us : " Do you think to succeed with a policy of 
pin pricks. Use weapons that hurt." 

" Men break bakers' shop windows," she added, 
" when they make protests, whereas we only broke 
Government windows, which our taxes are paying 
for, and we are prepared to take the consequences. 
I am quite ready to do three months with hard 
labour, if necessary." And she smiled. 

The others whom I questioned said much the 
same thing. They had wrapped the stones in 
brown paper the day before, to show that it was 
thought out and not done on the spur of the 
moment. 

As I was leaving the Police Station,, having said 
good-bye to the policeman who had arrested me, 
and who asked for my ribbon badge as a souvenir, 
I noticed one of the stone-throwers. She was 
tying her shoe-lace. 

" If you are imprisoned," I said, " carry on the 
agitation for first division treatment. Do not 
give in, whatever happens." 

She looked at me in surprise, as if she wondered 
whether I could be in earnest. 

" Give in," she repeated, and laughed lightly, 
" I do not think you will find that any of us will 
give in." 

July ijth. 

This afternoon I have made a speech. Anyone 
who remembers doing so for the first time will 



86 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

understand how I felt. To describe it would be 
quite impossible. 

On my return from London to home duties and 
constitutional agitation for the Franchise, I was 
informed by the organiser that it was my plain 
duty to speak at the first weekly At Home, be- 
cause the others would want to hear about my 
experiences on the deputation. I explained to 
her that I should probably be unable to say a word 
when the time came, and that there was nothing I 
could think of which I would dislike more. But 
she waved aside all objections. 

" Wait till you have heckled a Cabinet Minis- 
ter," she said, " that is very much worse." 

I made a few notes of what I wanted to say, and 
when the time came it was not quite so bad as I 
had anticipated. At first it was horrible, but soon 
I forgot that I was speaking, or that there was an 
audience. I seemed to lose sight of myself, some- 
how, and only to be filled with a longing to 
adequately describe the Woman's Movement, as 
it had impressed me when in London. 

I do not remember what I said, but I was sur- 
prised to find how words came; and as I described 
the events of June 29th, I felt that I had the 
audience with me. 

When I had finished a lady came up to speak to me. 

" I do not know you," she said, " but I want to 
shake hands and to thank you for your speech. 
You made the others laugh with your little 
anecdotes, but I could not laugh, because there 
was a lump in my throat and tears in my eyes all 
the time, from the way you described the real 
meaning of the Woman's Movement." 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 87 

I explained that I was not a speaker, but that 
there was something about the atmosphere of the 
W.S.P.U. which made one ashamed to refuse to 
do anything at all that might help. 

As I was leaving the hall the organiser told me 
that a lady was anxious to give an At Home 
next week in her own house, and invite about 
thirty friends who were either " antis " or opposed 
to the militant methods, and wanted me to be the 
speaker. 

I was naturally very much taken aback. 

" But I could not, really," I exclaimed. " To 
speak to people like this, who are friendly, is bad 
enough ; but to ' antis ' would be impossible." 

" You will find it much easier," she replied. 
" The mere fact of knowing that they are against 
it will help you to stand up for the Cause. All 
you have got to do is to defend the methods, and 

you can manage that. Mrs. W particularly 

wishes you to be the speaker, because she says she 
has never heard the militant methods so well ex- 
plained as by you this afternoon." 

Of course, I had to consent, and the date is 
fixed for Thursday of next week. 

In this movement there is no retrogression. I 
can see that the day is not far distant when I shall 
heckle a Cabinet Minister. Well, it is a great 
Cause ! 

July lyrn^ 

This morning, as I was selling papers in the 
street, a man whose face I felt I had seen before 
came up to me and, holding out sixpence, asked 
for a copy of Votes for Women. 



88 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

" Do you not recognise me, Mrs. Brown ?" he 
asked, smiling. And suddenly I realised that he 
was the " anti " I had argued with at tea after my 
day at the polling booth. 

" Yes, I remember you well, now," I said, 
" and I have often wished to meet you again to say 
how sorry I am that I was so rude to you that day. 
One wants to be worthy of the colours, and Suffra- 
gettes are never rude." 

The " anti " looked perplexed. 

" You must be making a mistake," he said. " I 
am quite sure that you have never been rude, cer- 
tainly not to me. I have no recollection of any- 
thing but a most interesting conversation with a 
very charming lady. Oh, no, I do not want the 
change. Keep it for the Cause." And, raising 
his hat, he walked away. 

Of course, he remembered perfectly. I wish 
now I had said nothing. I had barely recovered 
from this interview when a middle-aged man with 
a very red face walked up, smoking a cigar. He 
stopped to inform me (without troubling to take 
the cigar out of his mouth) that he had always 
advocated Woman's Suffrage until the commence- 
ment of the militant methods, but owing to them 
he was no longer in favour of the Movement. 

I am really getting very tired of this weak 
argument, and just then I felt as if I could not 
stand it again, so I told him that I had always 
believed in Tariff Reform, and felt sure it would 
lessen unemployment and benefit the country, but 
that recently I, too, had been compelled to change 
my opinion, and was now advocating Free Trade, 
owing to the fact that one or two men had inter- 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 89 

rupted a Liberal political meeting and heckled the 
speaker about Tariff Reform, even going so far as 
to create quite a disturbance. This, to my mind, 
proved conclusively that their policy was a wrong 
one, and many others shared my view. 

The middle-aged man rose to it at once. He 
got very excited, and explained that Free Trade 
was ruining the country, and the only hope for 
England was Tariff Reform. 

" If these men heckled the Liberal speakers they 
were perfectly right to do so," he exclaimed, 
" what else should they do .? Did I expect them 
to sit still and say nothing.? As for a person who 
could change his policy because of what any man 
chose to do, it only proved that he never wanted 
Tariff Reform to start with." 

" Precisely," I said, " and anyone who strongly 
believes that Woman's Enfranchisement would be 
a benefit to the country would scarcely change his 
views on the subject because of the behaviour of 
what he takes to be a handful of quite unrepre- 
sentative people. On the contrary, he would" 
exert himself more than ever to retrieve the damage 
that they had done to the Cause. That is my 
point. I am so glad you have seen it." 

" It is not a parallel case," he stuttered, angrily. 
" The fact of the matter is that women canH argue; 
their place is in the kitchen or the nursery." 

Having settled this point, he walked away, fum- 
ing with indignation and wiping his forehead with 
a large pocket-handkerchief. 

I have no doubt some woman will marry that 
man if one has not already done so. It is a 
strange world. 



90 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

Soon after he had gone a young woman, wheel- 
ing a perambulator, stopped to tell me that she 
would rather have her baby than a vote. 

" Well, you have neither at present," I ex- 
plained, cheerfully, " for by law you are not 
recognised as a parent. That is to say if you are 
married," I added, as an after-thought. She 
seemed puzzled, and merely repeated her former 
statement. 

" Well, I daresay when we get the vote," I 
said, soothingly, " it will be quite possible for you 
to have a baby as well. It seems to me improbable 
that the extension of the Franchise to qualified 
women will result in the population ceasing. It 
does not appear to have had that effect in Australia 
and elsewhere." 

She looked at me with evident interest. 

" How much do they pay you for selling them 
papers ?" she asked presently. 

"What would you do it for?" I asked. 

" Not for nothing you could give me," she 
replied, emphatically. 

" Exactly, that is how we feel about it." 

At that moment a lady, wearing the colours, 
came up to buy a paper, and when she had walked 
on I turned to find that my friend with the 
perambulator had gone. 

On the whole I had a successful morning, for I 
sold all the papers. 

July 22nd. 

My second speech really was a success, " though 
I says it as shouldn't." 

I arrived at Mrs. W 's house to find a large 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 91 

drawing-room filled with ladies who were having 
tea as a preliminary entertainment. Of course, I 
was wearing the colours and the badge. My 
hostess introduced me to the assembly as " the 
speaker who has just returned from London." 

It was decided that Mrs. W would take the 

chair and say a few words, then I was to make a 
speech in defence of the methods, after which 
questions could be asked by the audience. Six 
questions had abready been written on pieces of 
paper by some of the ladies and placed on the 
table in readiness for me. I do not believe that a 
single woman in the room was really an " anti." 
They were principally people who knew little or 
nothing of the subject and a few who strongly 
disapproved of our methods as unwomanly, having 
read and accepted the newspaper accounts. Any- 
how, by the time I had finished speaking, I asked 
if any women who still felt that we had gone too 
far would hold up their hands, and not one did. 

" I am glad to see," I remarked, " that no one 
here has any fault to find with the militant methods. 
Personally, I have got one — that they are not 
militant enough." 

I then proceeded to read out and answer the 
written questions, as follows : — 

I have kept the papers so as to remember. 

(i) Admitting, as everyone must, that many 
laws as they now stand are unfair to women, why 
should you blame men ? I am sure they are just as 
anxious as we are that laws should be just. 

Answer. We do not blame men. Tout au 
contraire. We blame the fact that men have to 
make laws referring to women and the home with- 



92 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

out any woman's point of view being represented. 

(2) As the laws which are unfair to women were 
made many years ago, when social conditions were 
different, is it not likely that any new ones will be 
made equally fair to both sexes without women 
having the vote ? 

Answer. Certainly not. John Burns has been 
trying to bring in a law to prevent married women 
from working, the inevitable result of which, if it 
passed, would be that they and their children 
would starve. This law was to help the solution 
of the unemployment problem; " unemployed " 
being evidently a masculine term. I could quote 
several laws passed recently with the best inten- 
tions, which are extremely unfair to women. 

(3) I have- met more women who were against 
Woman's Suffrage than men, which proves that 
the majority do not want it. 

Answer. Of course, men are less opposed to 
Woman's Suffrage than women because they un- 
derstand political economy better, and realise how 
vitally important the political vote is to any class 
or sex, and how impossible it will be for women to 
better their conditions without it. If men had 
not realised this fact they would not have fought 
as they did to secure it for themselves. All the 
women who understand want it — the medical 
women, the University women, the working 
women. 

(4) If Adult Suffrage were to follow later, would 
there not be a majority of almost a million women 
voters over men } 

Answer. Yes, but women as a sex would never 
combine on any question. Why, even this ex- 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 93 

tremely personal question of votes for women has 
men in favovir of it and women against it. 

(5) If women are not satisfied with man-made 
laws neither will they be satisfied with woman- 
made laws. 

Answer. Of course not. But who ever sug- 
gested having woman-made laws? That would 
be as ridiculous a mistake as the present arrange- 
ment. We want the use of a left hand as well as 
a right, not instead of it. 

(6) Are not the militant methods retarding the 
movement and putting the hands of the clock back.' 

Answer. Militant methods have advanced the 
hands of the clock beyond the hopes of the most 
sanguine of the Suffragettes. Whoever heard of 
Votes for Women before the militant methods 
began, although these same women had been 
agitating constitutionally for years. A movement 
that can raise ;^50,ooo and which can number 
thousands of members in a space of a few years is 
a progressive movement. 

After the questions had been answered, we all 
discussed the question at great length, and to my 
surprise I found no opposition at all. Many of 
the women said that they would certainly join the 
Union, and all the literature I had brought with 
me was sold at once. 

July 23RD. 
The fourteen women who were sent to HoUoway 
for throwing stones on June 29th have all followed 
Miss Dunlop's example and adopted the hunger 
strike. Twelve have been already released, and 
the other two will probably follow. I see that 



94 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

some of them were without food for as long as 
six days and six hours. 

This is a wonderful Union. And to think that 
I asked one of them to be sure not to give' in. 

I have received a letter from the organiser 
asking me to become a regular speaker. She is 
particularly anxious that I should. This is the 
result of having got carried away in my defence of 
the methods. I shall write back that I could not 
possibly do such a thing. 

It is a great Cause, but there are limits to what 
one can bear. Prison is all very well. A hunger 
strike even I could contemplate with comparative 
equanimity, but for the present I cannot' be a 
speaker. 

July 29TH. 

An opportunity for heckling a Cabinet Minister 
has come and gone. 

A political meeting, to which women were not 
admitted, was held here yesterday about the 
Budget; so, of course, a protest meeting was held 
outside by members of the W.S.P.U. 

Really, the precautions taken to protect members 
of the Government from the attentions of the 
Suffragettes are getting more ridiculous every day. 
It would be difficult to believe if one had not seen 
it for oneself. Plain clothes detectives, mounted 
police, and policemen on foot thronged the street, 
while large crowds naturally collected to see what 
would happen. 

The speaker, a small and fragile-looking girl, 
was standing in a wagonette addressing an in- 
terested audience. Presently she stepped down 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 95 

and walked towards the door of the hall, followed 
by several other Suffragettes and a crowd of 
friendly sympathisers. Instantly the police 
hurried to the rescue. 

A tall man in the crowd, who was watching the 
proceedings with ill-concealed amazement, walked 
up to a constable and said drily : " Don't you think 
it would be safer to send for the Territorial forces 
as well if you really hope to arrest that little girl ?" 

Sarcasm was unheeded, however, and the speaker 
was soon to be seen walking away between two 
tall policemen, with whom she was conversing in 
a friendly way. 

It was some time before a cabman could be per- 
suaded to drive them to the police station, one of 
them exclaiming that he was a Suffragette himself 
and would not do it for a thousand pounds. 

Finally, one consented, and they drove away, the 
speaker well pleased with the success of the pro- 
test. Two or three other women were also arrested 
in exactly the same way. 

The account in last night's paper was as fol- 
lows : "Struggling, kicking, and biting, the women 
were dragged through the street, and from there 
were driven to the police station." 

Clearly, the next step to be taken is to persuade 
the Press to report things fairly. I should like to 
interview an Editor on the subject. 

I pointed out the absurdity of the newspaper 
description to a man this morning, and he re- 
marked that it was rather hard lines on policemen 
to be scratched and kicked because women wanted 
a vote. I explained that I knew from personal 
experience that those things were not done, and 



96 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

that no one realised the fact better than the police- 
men themselves, who were our best friends, and 
most of them on our side now. 

" Oh, it's that way, is it ?" he said, laughing. 
" Aren't the cooks and housemaids getting 
jealous ?" 

It was not a loafer outside a public-house who 
said this to me, but a gentleman; yet he evidently 
presumed that if we were not scratching police- 
men's faces we must be kissing them. I refrain 
from further comment. 

August 2nd. 

I was carefully arranging purple and white 
flowers with plenty of green in the drawing-room 
vases this morning when a Suffragette friend, 
Viola Green, looked in to ask me to have tea with 
her to-morrow. She explained that she par- 
ticularly wished to introduce me to a charming 
girl. This girl, she felt sure, would be an asset 
to the Cause, if it were properly explained to her, 
because she had money and was independent with 
plenty of leisure time at her disposal, besides being 
clever and interesting and sweet to look at. 

" Have you discussed Woman's Suffrage with 
her.?" I inquired. 

" No, I have not had a chance yet. I only met 
her the other day, but I liked her awfully, so I have 
asked her to tea, and I am depending on you to 
secure her as a member." 

" So you want me to convert her. Why not 
try yourself.? You know as much as I do about 
the subject, and once the facts are put plainly before 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 97 

her, or anyone else, ' She that hath ears to hear, 
will hear what the spirit of the age is saying to 
the women.' " 

" But I want you to meet her, and I would much 
rather listen than talk." 

" Very well," I agreed. " I am disengaged to- 
morrow, so I will come and do my best. In the 
meantime, will you kindly admire these flowers, 
and note the fact that my room is now entirely 
furnished in the colours — cushions, curtains, and 
everything." 

" There is another thing I wanted to say," con- 
tinued Viola, absolutely disregarding my remark. 
" I want you, if possible, not to be rude to her. 
She may be against our methods and that sort of 
thing, so do promise not to make her angry and 
spoil it all." 

I could not help laughing. 

" I promise," I said, and gathering up the re- 
maining flowers I bunched them together and 
handed them to my companion, who thanked me 
and pinned them carefully into her frock. 

" You will remember about not being rude to 
her ^" she repeated, anxiously, as she rose to go. 

" Good gracious ! What do you take me for .?" I 
exclaimed. " Am I an ' anti ' that I should be 
rude, or a Member of Parliament that I should 
break a pledge?" 

Viola sat down again with a gesture of despair. 

" There you are, that is just what I mean. You 
will say something of that sort, and probably she is 
an " anti " ; people who know nothing about it so 
often are. And most likely she has a brother or 
someone who is a Member of Parliament." 



98 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

I managed to calm her fears and promised to be 
careful. If I find this girl is an " anti " I shall just 
change the subject to a safer topic. 



August 3RD. 

When I got to Viola's flat this afternoon the girl 
had not arrived, so we had a few moments' con- 
versation as to the best way of opening the attack. 
Just as we had decided that I might begin by saying 
quite casually, " Are you interested in Woman's 
Suffrage ? " the door opened to admit the visitor. 

She was, as Viola had said, a sweet-looking girl. 
As we rose to greet her I perceived that she wore a 
white costume with a green straw hat and a purple 
scarf. Then, simultaneously, our eyes fell on the 
lapel of her coat. On it there was pinned a Votes 
for Women Badge. We stood still, staring at it 
in silent amazement. 

The girl laughed lightly. 

" Do not be shocked," she exclaimed. " I may 
as well confess at once. I am a Suffragette, and, 
moreover, I approve of militant methods." 

Of course, we got on splendidly at once. We 
explained that I had come for the express purpose 
of converting her, to which she replied that had she 
guessed that she would have hidden the badge and 
pretended to be an " anti," to draw me out. She is 
only here on a visit, so I may not see her again; 
but her account of her work in London was most 
thrilling and amusing. Like every Suffragette I 
have met so far, she has a keen sense of humour, 
extraordinary courage, and an optimism which 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 99 

makes one feel that the fight is almost over and 
victory in sight. 

Three times I have tried to interview the Editor 
of that evening paper, and three times I have 
failed. I suppose it was my own fault for wearing 
the colours so conspicuously when I first called. 
On each occasion I was told that he was out or too 
busy to see anyone. 

Yesterday I wrote him a very polite letter saying 
that I was anxious to speak to him on a matter of 
business, and would be greatly obliged if he would 
make an appointment, as I could come at any hour, 
on any day which would suit best, and would not 
detain him for more than a few moments. I have 
this morning received his reply. 

A short note in the third person to the effect that 
the Editor regrets he will not be able to have a 
personal interview with Mrs. Brown, but if she 
will write what she wishes to say he will give the 
matter his attention. 

I put on my hat, and with his note in my hand 
went at once to the Committee Room. The 
organiser was busy doing accounts. I handed her 
the letter. 

"What shall I do next.?" I inquired, when she 
had read it through. " What sort of bricks shall I 
throw at him?" 

She laughed. " They always write like that," 
she explained, cheerfully. " There is no use doing 
anything more." 

I am leaving to-morrow for a small seaside place, 
where I have taken lodgings for myself and the 
boys, it being their holidays, so I really have no 
time anyhow for a further attack on the Editor. 



loo Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

August 6th. 

It is hopeless by myself to attempt any propa- 
ganda work here where I am staying. As an artist 
whom I met yesterday, and who is interested in 
our Cause, remarked when I consulted him on the 
subject, " This place is asleep and scarcely worth 
awakening." I have decided not to try. 

The other day, however, I received a letter from 

Miss M , to whom I had given my address, 

informing me that there is to be a meeting next 
Monday at a town about half an hour's journey by 
train from here, and that she is there with a helper. 

Miss P , working it up. Lady Constance 

Lytton is one of those who is going to speak, and 
they are having some open-air meetings, and Can- 
vassing to sell the tickets, as they are very anxious 
that the hall should be filled. 

She wants me to go over to-morrow and help 
them by calling on the residents and persuading 
them to buy tickets, so I have promised that I will. 
I shall be interested to meet the helper, Miss 

P , as she has taken part most successfully 

several times in heckling Cabinet Ministers, and 
quite recently did the hunger strike. 

August 7th. 

Having reached my destination, and with some 

difficulty found Miss M 's lodgings, I was 

informed by the landlady, an amiable-looking, fat 
woman with red cheeks, that my friends were out, 
but she was expecting them back at any moment, 
and would I please come in and be seated. 

I accepted this invitation and followed her into a 
large sitting-room, where a fire was burning 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette loi 

brightly, and Suffragist literature was scattered 
freely over the table and on the mantelpiece. 
Moving aside a large bundle of Votes for Women 
papers, I seated myself on a sofa. 

" Where have they gone ? " I inquired of the 
landlady. "Perhaps I might go out and join 
them." 

" Oh, they'll be back in a minute; they only 
just stepped round to the cleaner's." 

" The cleaner's ! " I repeated, in surprise. 

" Well, you see, mum," she explained, " they 
held one of their open-air meetings last night, and 
the young men they threw such a lot of rotten eggs 
and flour at them that their skirts was really spoilt 
like, and wanted cleaning. It's lucky they had 
others with them to change. Not but what it was 
a good meeting," she added. 

A few moments later they came in, both looking 

a little tired but supremely happy. Miss M 

welcomed me warmly, and introduced me to her 
companion. 

" Let's sit round the fire and talk for a little," 
she suggested, " then we can go out and do some 
canvassing." 

Miss P is quite young, and, like most of 

the women I have met in this Union, charming 
and very attractive. She has the Suffragette eyes 
of course, and the Suffragette smile. Somehow 
these women always make me feel a little bit 
ashamed of myself. 

" Tell me about your hunger strike," I said, 
presently. " Did you feel very bad .'' " 

" Oh, no, not very. I am quite prepared to go 
through it again. The prison officials were kind; 



ia2 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

they are beginning to understand now in Hollo- 
way. The last night was the worst; they put cocoa 
beside me, and I was so weak and so very thirsty. 
I had to keep my eyes shut and just pmy for 
strength not to drink any. After a while I lost 
consciousness, and afterwards I was released." 

" She is going to prison again on Monday," 

announced Miss M , " so I must get another 

helper. I wish that you could stay." 

" Or come with me," suggested Miss P . 

" A Cabinet Minister is going to speak on the 
Budget at Dundee, so I am going up there to make 
a protest. It is only a case of saying a few words; 
and I hear that the Dundee prison has much nicer 
cells than HoUoway." 

" Do you think that you ought to do a second 
hunger strike so soon ? " 

"I do not mind the hunger strike. What I 
dread is that they may feed us forcibly. Some 
lawyers say it is legal> and of course they will if 
they can. If only a great many women would go 
to prison now all ready to carry out this protest it 
would help so much." 

" I hope you will believe me," I said, " when I 
tell you that I am very much sorrier than you are 
that I shall not be able to go with you on Monday; 
but I have got two small boys, and I can't possibly 
leave them alone in lodgings for weeks." 

" Of course not," assented Miss P readily. 

" Home duties always come first." 

Half an hour later we started, all in different 
directions, each carrying a list of names and 
addresses of residents, and a packet of tickets for 
the meeting, having carefully divided the names 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 103 

into three lists so that the same people should not 
be visited twice. There were is. tickets, 2s. ones, 
and 2s. 6d. ones. 

I wonder whether anybody who has never done 
it can possibly realise what it feels like to ring the 
front door bell of a stranger's house with no better 
excuse for calling than that you are a Suffragette, 
not having the remotest idea whether the occupier 
is a sympathiser, a disinterested onlooker, or a 
virulent " anti " .'' 

Having with a great effort summoned up sufficient 
courage to do this, I inquired of the maid whether 
her mistress were at home, and on being told that 
she was I gave my name, with the request that I 
might see her for a few moments. The maid 
showed me into a dining-room, where, with the 
feelings of a child waiting in a dentist's room, I 
sat down in a large leather armchair. 

Presently the door opened to admit a timid- 
looking, rather sweet little fluffy woman, of the 
clinging type, who looked at me in evident sur- 
prise. I rose to my feet. 

" I must apologise for intruding like this," I 
began, with some hesitation, " but I called to ask 
whether you are interested in Woman's Suffrage 
— I mean in votes for women," I added, as she 
looked puzzled. " I thought perhaps you might 
care to attend a lecture on the subject next Mon- 
day. Lady Constance Lytton is coming to speak 
for us, and there will be one or two others also." 

The little woman smiled quite pleasantly. 
" Won't you sit down ? " she said. " I don't know 
anything about votes for women, and I am not 
sure whether my husband would care to go to a 



I04 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

lecture like that. I should have to ask him first. 
It's about Suffragettes, isn't it ? " 

" Yes." 

" You do not approve of them, surely ^ Those 
hooligans who do such dreadful things," and she 
gave a little shiver. 

" I do approve of them," I replied. " I am one 
myself, you see." 

" Now you are joking, of course," and she 
laughed merrily. " But tell me about them. I 
can't understand why women should wish to rule 
men." 

" Do they ? I have never met one who ex- 
pressed that desire." 

" Oh, well, those Suffragettes want to be exactly 
like men, anyhow." 

" I am sorry to seem to be contradicting you 
again, but I have never met one of those, either. 
I certainly have no wish to be exactly like a man. 
I admire my own sex so much more." 

My hostess leaned forward. " Are you really a 
Suffragette, or were you joking just now ? " 

" I am really a Suffragette, and moreover, a 
militant one. I am ' on remand ' at this moment." 

" On remand .'' " she gasped. " I do not quite 
understand." 

" I took part in what the papers describe as a 
' Raid on the House of Commons ' on June 29th. 
Our case has been adjourned to a higher court." 

She looked at me in amazement. Then she 
burst out laughing. " I am so glad to have met 
you," she said. " I never saw a militant Suffra- 
gette before. You look quite different though to 
what I should have expected." 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 105 

" You thought I should have short hair and 
large feet, and wear smoke-coloured glasses ? " I 
suggested. 

"Yes, I think I did. Would you mind if I 
were to fetch my husband? I am sure he would 
like to talk to you." 

Without giving me time to answer, she ran off 
and returned in a few moments, followed by 
exactly the sort of man I would have expected her 
to have married, the type who talks loud and 
dictates to everyone, and never realises that he is 
being ' managed ' skilfully by a small, fragile 
person who appears to be giving in to him. 

He looked at me hesitatingly, and then glanced 
in the direction of the window. There was a 
cracked pane of glass. 

" I did not break that," I said, meekly. " I do 
not happen to have any stones with me to-day; 
besides, you are not a Cabinet Minister." 

He perceived that I was making fun of him. 

" Precisely, madam," he said, stiffly. " I am 
not a Cabinet Minister. I should therefore be 
glad to know to what I am indebted for the honour 
of this visit." 

Without giving me time to reply, he went on 
to explain that for years he had been strongly in 
favour of Woman's Suffrage; had, in fact, always 
advocated it; but now, after reading of the out- 
rageous behaviour of a few hysterical women, he 
found himself compelled to withdraw his support. 

When he had stopped speaking I asked him 
what he had done for our Cause during all those 
years before he had changed his views. 

"I spoke in favour of Woman's Suffrage," he 



io6 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

said, impatiently. " I gave it as my opinion that 
qualified women should be allowed a Parliamentary 
vote. So long as they contented themselves with 
womanly methods it was all very well; now it is 
quite a different thing." 

" The sole difference between our methods and 
those of the non-militant Suffragists is as follows : 
We all ask for precisely the same thing, namely, 
the elementary justice of citizenship, but whereas 
the others remain good and happy, signing 
petitions which will not be read and holding meet- 
ings which are never reported in the Press, we of 
the W.S.P.U. having discovered that the vote 
will never be secured in that way, have volunteered 
to pay the necessary price. You do not surely 
suppose that we like doing it, that we are the class 
and type of people who are in the habit of break- 
ing windows for fun .'' " 

" I consider that you ought to be ashamed of 
yourselves. This behaviour on the part of the 
Suffragettes is destroying all chivalry." 

" Well, I am not ashamed of myself," I re- 
torted. " On the contrary I am ashamed of you. 
I think I have always admired my own sex most, 
but I had many illusions about men. I trust that 
before we get this vote they may not all be shat- 
tered. I was brought up to believe that English- 
men were brave, chivalrous, and strong, ever ready 
to protect the weak, that they respected women; 
but what do I find ? Our open-air meetings broken 
up with violence by hooligans who admit that they 
have been paid by 'Liberal gentlemen ' to do it; 
our women, ladies by birth, assaulted, even knocked 
down and kicked, while hardly a man steps forward 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 107 

to interfere (if one does he is subjected also to 
brutal violence and looked upon as a fool for his 
pains). This is not a sex war. It is the men and 
women of the future, against the men and women 
of the past, but it seems we shall have to do the 
fighting part alone. As for the men of England, 
what are they doing to help us? How many of 
them have sacrificed themselves for this Cause, as 
women would so gladly do for them if it were 
necessary.? What did you do while yet you 
approved of ns? Did you offer to hold open- 
air meetings for us and sell our papers in the 
street so that we might be womanly and sit com- 
fortably at home.? Oh, the argument that we are 
destroying chivalry makes me reel sick. As if real 
chivalry could ever die ! Like love, it is immortal. 
Why, it lives in this Movement, if nowhere else. 
As for the artificial chivalry which you allude to, 
take it back, keep it, we do not require it, we can 
open the door for ourselves." 

I rose and walked towards the door as I spoke, 
for I felt that perhaps I had said too much. The 
little wife stared at me in amazed silence, but her 
husband walked after me. 

" What would you like me to do .? " he asked, 
quietly. 

" To buy these tickets, please," I said, handing 
him two of the 2s. 6d. ones, " and go on Monday 
to hear what these women have to say. Listen 
with an unbiassed mind, and afterwards you will 
decide how to help them best. Everyone can do 
something, and you will want to so badly. You, 
also," I added, turning to the little wife, "you 
will not be able to resist the spirit of the age. 



io8 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

You need not go to prison, of course. There are 
other ways of helping." 

She glanced at her husband as if uncertain how 
to reply. He gave me 5s., and put the tiokets in 
his pocket. " I shall go to this meeting," he said, 
" because I always like to hear both sides of a 
question. ' Live and let live,' is my motto, and 
no one can accuse me of being prejudiced, but I 
won't have my wife lecturing on platforms or 
fighting with policemen in the street, so don't 
you think it." 

I burst out laughing. Somehow I could not help 
it. " Deny and Toms have charming hats in the 
colours." I observed; " they are really most 
becoming." 

" What are the colours ? " asked the wife, with 
interest. 

"Purple, white, and green. They stand for 
purity, courage, and faith." 

As I walked away I could not help wishing 
inwardly that I had more of the courage and even 
a little faith. 

My next experiment proved less successful. 
The lady opened the door herself, and informed 
me that she was a widow, and did not go out 
much. When I explained my errand she drew 
herself up. 

" Suffragettes, indeed ! " she said, angrily. " I 
won't have any hooligans in my house." 

" Then perhaps I had better go away," I sug- 
gested, " since I am one ? " 

" I think you had," she replied, and banged the 
door in my face. 

At the next two visits I drew blanks. The 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 109 

ladies were out. I hope the maids who answered 
the door did not notice the relief with which I 
received this intelligence. 

" Things always go in threes," I reflected, as 
I approached a house with a large garden sur- 
rounding it. " This woman will be out, too." 

However, she was not. I was shown into a 
charming drawing-room, where a smartly dressed 
woman was seated, doing some fancy work. She 
did not appear to resent my visit, and at first, 
though she admitted having signed an anti- 
Suffrage petition some months ago, I really felt 
that she might become interested. However, I 
was doomed to disappointment. She was of the 
type who, on the whole, are most difficult to deal 
with — the kind who, as soon as they realise that 
a reform will in no respect benefit themselves 
personally, cease to feel any further interest in the 
subject. I can remember a woman of this type 
once saying to me : " My husband does not drink, 
so why should I take an interest in temperance 
reforms ? " 

After a few moments' conversation I found 
myself discussing babies and the servant problem. 
It was very much easier, and we parted on good 
terms. 

I then proceeded to interview in turn an " anti," 
who was comparatively civil but " not taking 
any" as regards tickets; two indifferent women, 
who were also polite, but who thought they had 
engagements that evening and preferred to leave 
it open; and lastly, a bright little woman, who 
became mildly interested and consented to buy 
two of the IS. tickets. 



no Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

After that I returned to the lodgings, where I 
had only just time to have some tea while we 
compared notes as to our experiences, and then I 
had to run all the way to the station to catch my 
train. 

The others disapproved of what I said to the 
fluffy woman's husband. They insist that all the 
best men are on our side, and that they do help 
the Cause as far as they can. If this is so, I tender 
my apologies to the men of the country, but I wish 
that some of them had gone to prison. 

I cannot help feeling horribly ashamed that I 
am not going there myself on Monday with that 
sweet girl, but it is quite impossible to leave the 
boys alone now, and like the Irish Member of 
Parliament, " I am not a bird that I can be in two 
places at once." 

September 24TH. 

This morning I read in a comic paper an article 
entitled " When we are Suffragetted." It pur- 
ported to be a letter written by a man to his wife 
after women had secured the vote. He complained 
of having to bath the baby, and cook the dinner, 
etc., while she spent her time at the polling booth 
or in Parliament. It is a strange thing that no 
one has ever depicted harassed wives of doctors 
having to prescribe for patients while their hus- 
bands vote, or lawyers' wives preparing legal 
documents and interviewing clients in their 
husbands' absence at the polling booth. 

Evidently it is considered quite possible for a 
man to attend to his duties, even though he be the 
breadwinner, and at the same time possess a 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Sufragette 1 1 1 

Parliamentary vote, but in the case of women the 
exercise of the vote would occupy the whole of 
their lives, to the detriment of all other duties. I 
should very much like to hear the reason of this 
explained, for it is the commonest argument 
against Woman's Suffrage, if the most futile. One 
never sells the papers without hearing the same 
thing over and over again. " Who will cook the 
dinner? Who will look after the baby.'' What 
about the washing .? " One is compelled to wonder 
whether there is such a thing as family life and 
homes in Australia. 

Another point which these critics seem to entirely 
overlook is that so far as the law is concerned the 
home is the one place where a woman has no 
power at all — less, in fact, than anywhere else. 
" The husband has the power to select where the 
home shall be, and how it shall be conducted. In 
the eyes of the law he is the sole parent of the 
child so long as he is alive, and the decision as to 
the child's upbringing rests entirely with him. 
Whether the husband be good or bad, the wife is 
by law entirely subservient to him. She has no 
legal right to any share of the husband's income 
except in the case of actual desertion; and if, 
while continuing to live with her, he refbses to 
pay her a single penny of his wages, she cannot 
obtain such payment except by breaking up her 
home and going into the workhouse. Short of 
this she and her children can starve, and yet she 
cannot claim the protection of the law to obtain 
maintainence from her husband. Finally, in the 
event of either party to the marriage being guilty 
of definite immorality, there is a total difference 



112 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

in the treatment accorded to husband and wife." 

The fact that the majority of men live above 
the law and do not take advantage of this state of 
affairs does not make the legislation any fairer, 
and it seems reasonable to me that if a woman 
is to look upon marriage as her real raison d'etre 
she should be accorded some rights in her sole 
legitimate sphere, the home. 

September 28th. 

There was a very amusing, poem in one of the 
Votes for Women papers, referring to the occasion 
when Mr. Asquith was intercepted on his way 
home from church by two of our women, who 
asked him the usual question, to which there is 
no reply. I must copy it into my diary while I 
have the paper. It runs as follows : — 

In church he sat, with contrite air, 
And sweet, stained-glass emotions, 
And chastened mood : 
A halo fluttered o'er his hair 
And lightened his devotions : 
He felt quite good. 

He passed outside with stately stride, 
When (exit exaltation) 
Those women stood, 
Importunate ! The sanctified 
One burned with indignation : 
They were so rude. 

" My breakfast, lunch, and dinner, too," 

He said, "bring indigestion : 

I cannot sleep. 

In fact, life wears a sultry hue 

Since first this deuced question 

Made my flesh creep. 

My nerves, thanks to your most abrupt, 

Unwoirianly gyrations, 

Are far from strong. 

Women, how dare you interrupt 

My pious meditations ? 

Damme — It's wrong ! " C.L.E. 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 113 

The incident to which this poet refers has con- 
siderably incensed many good people, notably an 
" anti '? lady and her husband whom I met yester- 
day at a friend's house. 

They both said what a shocking thing it was 
that these dreadful women had no respect even for 
Sunday, or a place of Divine worship. One would 
have supposed from the way they spoke that the 
Suffragettes had addressed him inside the church 
or interrupted the sermon. 

I succeeded in deriving a little amusement from 
this couple, however, who, on hearing that I was 
a Suffragette, talked the usual nonsense about 
chivalry dying out if women had equal rights with 
men, and the fact of the militant methods proving 
that we were not qualified to vote, etc. " Law- 
breakers," announced the husband, solemnly, 
" should not be lawmakers." 

" Prison statistics prove," I replied, " that 
twelve men break the law to every two women, 
in spite of the fact that women predominate con- 
siderably in Britain. Nevertheless, men are at 
present the sole lawmakers." 

" I wish you had brought the boys with you," 
said my hostess at this moment, as she came up 
to hand me some tea. " I got sugar cakes and 
chocolates on purpose for them." 

This remark fortunately diverted the conversa- 
tion, and the lady asked me if my boys were fond 
of cakes. I think they were both rather surprised 
that a woman with children should under any 
circumstances be a Suffragette. 

" I never give them cakes," I replied. " If they 
ask for them I say, ' Those who ask shan't have,' 



114 -P"^" f'^om Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

and, of course, if they don't ask, that proves they 
do not really want them. It saves a lot of useless 
argument." 

My new friends looked puzzled and uncon- 
vinced. Neither of them made any reply. 

" How many children have you got } " inquired 
the husband, after rather an awkward pause. 

" I have got two boys and two girls. They 
get on so well together. I must tell you the plan 
I have about their pocket money. I give the boys 
IS. each every Saturday, and it is an understood 
thing that they always give a part of it to their 
sisters, or else buy them some little present. 
Yesterday the eldest girl actually asked me to let 
them all have 6d. each instead. She said they would 
much prefer it, as they could then buy what they 
liked. Both girls complained that they seldom 
got exactly what they wanted, and that when they 
did they felt it did not properly belong to them. 
Of course I was very much annoyed at such a 
ridiculous suggestion. Why should they want any 
money of their own.? Surely a boy has as much 
sense as his sisters with regard to what to buy 
for her. As I pointed out to the youngest girl 
(who complained that the week before last her 
brother would not buy her anything because he 
wanted all his money for a school feast and this 
week got her a toy cradle for her china doll, which 
was too small, when she had particularly wanted 
a ball), it would never do for girls to have money 
of their own, as they could scarcely expect to be 
treated with any consideration or kindness by their 
brothers unless they were dependent on them. 
Besides, of course, a girl should always find her 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 115 

greatest pleasure in being unselfish." 

" I do not agree with you at all," exclaimed the 
" anti " lady, hotly, " and I call it a most unfair 
arrangement. I wonder that you, who advocate 
equal rights, should make so much difference 
between your girls and your boys." 

" I am so glad you agree with me about that," 
I said, pleasantly. " I intended it as an illustration 
of the Government's attitude towards women." 

"And yet you employ for your own children 
the very methods you profess to disapprove of in 
others! " sneered the lady. 

" Just like a woman,"' observed her husband, 
feebly. 

" But that was part of the illustration," I ex- 
plained. " As a matter of fact I have got no 
daughters." 

I have never seen people look more surprised. 
" You mean," said the lady, coldly, " that what 
you have been telling us all this time is untrue ? " 

" Yes, if you prefer to put it that way." 

Simultaneously they rose to go. " I think it 
is a very good thing that you have not got 
daughters," observed the husband, as he bowed 
stiffly. 

"I have got two sons, however," I replied, 
laughing. 

*' I trust," said the lady, " that you will teach 
them to speak the truth! " and she walked away. 

It really was very funny. 

I can see, however, that I shall have to be more 
careful after this what sort of jokes I make to 
people " whose yea is yea, and their nay nay." I 
have actually been told by two friends that I am 



1 16 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

reported to have advocated the use of bombs in 
our warfare against Cabinet Ministers. Fortun- 
ately this is not Russia, so I shall probably not 
find myself in Siberia. "^ 

October ist. 
I have just read in to-day's paper that the 
Suffragettes now in prison have been forcibly fed. 
The article was headed, " Collapse of the Hunger 
Strike." They make out that only one woman 
was subjected to this treatment, and that the 
others then consented to take food. The Votes 
paper will not come out for days, so there is 
no way of finding out the real facts. I do hope 
it is not true. Somehow I feel that the other 
women would not have given in. One thing is 
quite plain — if it is true we must all go to prison. 
The only way to stop a thing of that sort is by 
unity and large numbers, as Mrs. Pankhurst said 
when the protest against second division treatment 
began. I do hope they will convict us when our 
case comes off next month. Ninety-five prisoners 
all requiring to be forcibly fed would give the 
doctors some work. 

October 9TH. 

I have undertaken to take part in a Woman's 
Suffrage demonstration of a peaceful nature in 
Edinburgh two days hence. The object of this 
demonstration is to wake up Scotland a little to 
the need of, and the desire for, the enfranchise- 
ment of women. Like everything else undertaken 
by this wonderful Union, it is being splendidly 
organised, and the work done in preparation 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette iiy 

beforehand has entailed an enormous amount of 
propaganda work all over Scotland. 

The procession is to include an historical 
pageant, representing Scotch women who have 
distinguished themselves in various ways, and it 
is as one of these characters that I am going to 
join. I have secured the necessary costume, and 
am looking forward with some interest to the 
experience, never having taken part in a demon- 
stration before. It is rather tiresome having to 
travel all the way to Edinburgh and back, but that 
cannot be helped. I shall go to-morrow, so as to 
have a night's rest there before the day of the 
procession. I only hope it will not rain. 

October 9TH. 

I had a most interesting journey yesterday, and 
did not find it a bit tiring, owing to the fact that 
I made friends with two travelling companions 
en route. When we started there were several 
people in the carriage of the type who look angry 
if anyone else gets in, and who insist on shutting 
both of the windows; but seated opposite me was 
a very nice-looking girl, who presently unfolded 
a paper she was holding in her hand and began to 
read it. 

One glance was sufficient to show me that it 
was a copy of Votes for W>omen. I had secured 
one myself to read on the journey, so I took it 
out of my bag and smiled at her as I held it up. 
She smiled also, and a few moments later leaned 
forward to ask me if I were going to Edinburgh 
to take part in the procession. I replied that I 
was, and we then began to compare notes about 



1 1 8 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

our experiences when working for the W.S.P.U. 
She was most apologetic about not having been 
to prison, and explained that she was not at all 
strong, having a weak spine, and that her people 
absolutely refused to consent to her taking part in 
a deputation. 

I sympathised deeply. I think it must be 
dreadftil to want to go and not be able to manage 
it. After about an hour the other passengers got 
out, and a man came in who soon joined in our 
conversation, being very much interested in the 
"Suffrage question. He was a doctor, and dis- 
approved of women having a vote, though he 
admitted that logically we were entitled' to it, and 
that ultimately we were quite certain to get it. 
With regard to militant methods, he said that 
undoubtedly they were necessary, but that we 
should have to go further than we had done; 
breaking a few Government windows was not 
sufficient. Men, he explained, had always broken 
windows ever since windows were invented. At 
Winchester, about three years ago, they had 
collected, three nights in succession, and broken 
two hundred windows as a political protest. 

" Were they imprisoned ? " I inquired. 

" No, of course not. As a medical student I 
have taken part in political protests myself. On 
one occasion I broke in a door with a hatchet. We 
were expected to pay something for the damage 
done, but that was all." 

" Then if our window-breaking has done 
nothing else," I suggested, " it has surely shown 
the public that what a man may do with impunity 
is a crime if done by a woman ? " 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 119 

" Women are different," was all he said. 

Evidently they are. 

I read in the Votes paper that it is true about 
the Suffragette prisoners being forcibly fed. 
However, as I had surmised, none of them have 
given in, so it is still going on. 

I wonder how long it will take the Government 
to realise that a Cause for which people are ready 
to die can never be stamped out by violence. 
The direct result of this treatment has been that 
letters have been pouring in to Mrs. Pankhurst 
from women who have not hitherto joined the ■ 
fighting line giving in their names as willing to 
take part in the next deputation. 

Two friends who met me on my arrival last 
night said that of course they also would go now, 
as it was the duty of all women in a crisis like this 
to stand by each other. Personally I have settled 
definitely that if we are not imprisoned next month 
I shall join the next deputation in February or 
March. Meanwhile I must go off and dress for 
this procession. I am glad to see that the sun is 
shining brightly, which ought to be a good omen. 

October ioth. 

I suppose everyone will admit that the pro- 
cession has been a great success and triumph, but 
if I had had any idea of how trying an ordeal my 
share in it would be, I doubt whether I should 
have volunteered so light-heartedly to join. 

I had naturally supposed that I would take my 
place, unconspicuously beside many others, and 
walk along the street; but when I arrived at the 
rendezvous, where the characters were being 



I20 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

touched up preparatory to taking their place in 
the pageant, I was informed that I should have to 
stand by myself on a lorry, which would be slowly 
driven, from the starting-place to the Waverly 
Market, a distance of more than a mile, where 
Mrs. Pankhurst's meeting was to be held. 

The procession was about a mile long — ^women 
on horseback, others playing the bagpipes or 
carrying the different banners, hundreds oh foot. 
Only the characters in the pageant were on lorries, 
one in front of the other. The streets were abso- 
lutely packed as far as one could see all the way, 
and on the whole the crowd seemed interested and 
sympathetic; but it would be difficult to describe 
the mental and physical discomfort of balancing 
oneself, standing alone, on a lorry during a drive 
through the streets, with every sudden movement 
of the horse calculated to upset one, literally and 
otherwise, not to mention the ten minutes before 
the procession started while the lorry was stationary 
and one stood on it surrounded by crowds of 
interested spectators discussing one's appearance 
as if one were a wax figure at Madame Tussaud's. 

As we passed one corner some people among the 
crowd hissed, so I looked round and smiled at 
them. Instantly men waved their hats and women 
their handkerchiefs — one almost dropped a baby 
in her haste to show that she was not an " anti " — 
and I heard no more hissing. 

When at last my conveyance stopped with a 
final jerk in front of the Waverly Market, and I 
was about to descend, feeling inexpressibly thankfiil 
that it was over, a policeman walked up and said : 
" Look here, you must get down. You can't stop 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 121 

there any longer, blocking up the thoroughfare." 
He apparently thought that I had enjoyed the 
ride and was anxious to prolong it. However, I 
offered no explanation, but put my hand on his 
shoulder and jumped off. 

Talking of policemen, I wonder whether the 
day will ever come when I shall see one without 
thinking of June 29th. 

The Waverly Market was crowded for Mrs. 
Pankhurst's meeting, which went off very well in 
spite of the efforts of some medical students in the 
background to break it up by singing and making 
a noise. 

November 26th. 

I have neglected my diary for a very long time, 
but the reason is that I have been too busy work- 
ing for the Cause to write. I have had a most 
interesting time. What I have been most struck 
by lately is the altered attitude towards militant 
methods of the more constitutional members of 
this Union. 

When one remembers the horror and dis- 
approval expressed over the conduct of those first 
stone-throwers, it is interesting to hear the same 
women arguing in their defence now, and, more- 
over, ready, if necessary, to go and do likewise. 
One of the Government's biggest blunders has 
certainly been this forcible feeding. By it they 
have played into our hands once more by rousing 
the indignation of the men in the country. 

Meanwhile, it has to go on, for to the everlasting 
honour of our women not one has failed, though 
almost thirty have been through it now. Many 



122 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

have had to be released owing to the acute in- 
flammation of the throat or gastritis, but not one 
has submitted to second division treatment. 

The attitude of the public towards the question 
has noticeably altered of late, as one cannot fail to 
perceive while selling the papers. 

Of course, one still meets a person occasionally 
who will make a remark such as, " There is a 
window, why don't you throw a stone at it ?" 

A man said that to me only yesterday. I replied 
that being a woman, I should look upon it as a 
foolish sort of political protest to throw a stone at a 
window of a shop, the occupant of which was 
probably a Suffragist, adding that we had only 
thrown them where there was a Cabinet Minister's 
meeting from which we were excluded, or for 
some other definite reason; and never without 
taking all possible precautions to prevent injury 
to people, no one having ever been hurt so far except 
ourselves. His reply was that it would never do 
for women to be exactly like men. 

December 3RD. 

I was much impressed by a letter in to-day's 
Votes for Women, the sentiments of which I en- 
dorse absolutely. So before discarding the paper I 
feel constrained to quote from it the following 
extracts : — 

" Gentlemen, — Here in Birmingham we have 
made a little mild history. It has been determined 
to make a special public protest against the torture 
of Miss Charlotte Marsh by forcible feeding in 
Winson Green Gaol. The seat of Brummagem 
Majesty, the Victoria Square, was accordingly 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 123 

selected as being the most forbidden spot. By 
good generalship the police had been decoyed in 
all directions except that from which the sortie was 
to be made, and Miss Capper, by an adroit flank 
movement, gained the Square and stormed the 
sacred eminence of the Victoria Statue. In the 
few moments' respite, while the police stood help- 
less in the paralysis of failure, the protest was well 
and truly made. 

" The Press has favoured us with a reasonable 
publicity regarding the ensuing scenes. I will not 
offer any addition to these accounts. The writer, 
the mildest of men, was accused of scragging seven 
policemen, including a deputy chief constable. It 
is probably a base rumour. Gluttony is a sin. 
Now, I wish to put a heavy finger on this Birming- 
ham business. The disturbances and the arrests 
differ in no wise from those which have occurred 
in other places, except in one particular — a man 
had been found who was ready to hit, and hit hard, 
a policeman in the execution of his duty. 

" The subsequent attitude of the police and 
Press are significant. 

"At first I was supposed to be drunk. This 
attitude was abandoned on discovering me seated 
in the Charge Office reading ' Omar.' Then that 
I was mad. The cogency of my arguments on the 
Suffrage did something to remove this impression 
(and I think at least two policemen are recommend- 
ing the W.S.P.U. to their wives). A third sug- 
gestion that I was a pugilist, paid by the women to 
bash the police, received some acceptance. On 
this account I was refused bail. The general 
belief was that I was ' broke,' anyhow, and was 



124 P^g^s from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

defending the women for hire. In the eyes of the 
poKce, then, I was drunk, or mad, or a pugilistic 
ruffian, or broke! 

" Friends have shown or sent to me cuttings, 
wherein I am variously described as 'The Women's 
Champion,' ' In Plucky Defence of the Women,' 
and ' A Squire of Dames.' In the eyes of the 
Press, then, I had done something extremely 
brave and chivalrous. 

" Gentlemen, the attitude of the police was 
mean and despicable. The attitude of the Press 
was Tosh. I am just an ordinary commonplace 
man, and to suggest anything else is but a further 
insult laid upon the brave band of women who 
have done without me and such as me in their 
splendid struggle against injustice and tyranny, 
scorning to ask the help which should have been 
given unasked. 

" The attitude of police and Press is that the 
natural action of defending a woman is abnormal. 
That if I had not been either a ruffian or a gallant 
I should not have dared. My reply to this is 
that I have just given myself away — I had the 
alternative of a month in default of the fine. 
The fine has been paid and I am free. I was not 
afraid of prison, but I dared not face its horrible 
accompaniment, the hunger strike, with its in- 
evitable treatment — torture by forcible feeding. 
Could I go to prison and do less than the women ? 
I chose the lesser shame of avoiding prison. 

"I sat in my cell after trial and debated the 
thing — ^fine or prison.? In all the grand things 
, the women have done, there is no greater testi- 
mony to their courage than the cowardice of the 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 125 

' burly ruffian ' or < gentle Bayard ' (which you 
will), who shrank from a little hunger and a little 
pain. 

" It has come to this : We have held our hands 
so long that when we do strike, languidly and 
deliberately, the cry arises that we are mad, or 
drunk, or hired. That there is not one decent 
man ready to stand between women and ill-usage. 
The stronger and the nobler sex ! My faith, it is 
a fine commentary ! " Brette Morgan." 

What will always be to me a more amazing thing 
than the attitude of the police and Press (the 
former, in London, are now entirely sympathetic) 
is the fact that there are a large number of people 
who really thinlc it is an easy thing the Suffragettes 
are doing, and that they rather enjoy it than other- 
wise. There have been nights lately when I have 
wakened thinking of those women in prison, and 
I confess that sometimes I have felt my heart sink 
at the prospect of going through those horrible 
weeks next March; but oftener I rejoice that soon 
I shall be privileged to share with them in the price 
that has to be paid, and I pray that when the time 
comes I shall be strong. 

December 6th. 

At a friend's house to-day I met a woman whom 
I last saw selling Votes for Women in London. 
We recognised each other at once, and,/ /" course, 
began to exchange confidences. Her experiences 
in the fighting line have been most thrilling, 
though she told them as if they were every-day 
occurrences. I asked her whether she intended to 
take part in the next deputation, and she said she 
did not, explaining that she was not at all strong 



126 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

now, and would certainly not be able to stand a 
hunger strike, much less forcible feeding. 

" It is paralysis I am getting, gradually," she 
said, quite unemotionally. " I have had treat- 
ment from several doctors, but they do not think 
anything can be done." 

I felt dreadfully sorry for her. 

" What caused it ?" I asked. " Nothing to do 
with being knocked about in this work, I hope." 

" Yes," she said, " all the vertebrae of the spine 
were damaged in the first place, and since then I 
have been gradually getting worse." 

" But how damaged .''" I inquired. 

" From blows," she said, quietly. 

I felt my face getting hot. 

" It was by mistake in the crowd," I suggested, 
" not blows given deliberately on purpose." 

She smiled. 

" Yes, blows given deliberately, on purpose. 
Have you never interrupted a Cabinet Minister's 
meeting ? If so, you must have seen it. Stewards 
deliberately hit us with their fists, or knock us 
down. Several kicked us while we were lying on 
the ground. People who were at the Albert Hall 
meeting, when Lloyd George spoke, have told me 
that they went home feeling sick at the sight of 
things done that night, and were powerless to stop 
it. A great many men joined the League for 
Woman's SuflFrage on the strength of it, because 
they realised for the first time what it means to 
be unenfranchised in this country." 

" I am so sorry about you," I said, " are you 
sure that nothing can be done ?" 

" It does not matter," said the Suffragette, 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 127 

gently, and her eyes shone. " I am glad to have 
had the privilege of fighting for such a Cause and 
for such women as the leaders of this movement. 
It would have been dreadful not to have been able 
to do anything." 

Just then our hostess came up and I did not see 
my new friend again till I was leaving. 

" Good-bye," she said, " we may meet perhaps 
at Bow Street later on. I have been thinking that 
after all I shall go in that deputation. If I am 
unable to stand the forcible feeding it does not 
matter so very much. One can only die once, and 
I have often thought it would help the Cause very 
much if someone were to be killed in this fight." 

I did not answer. What could I say to her ? 

As I walked slowly home, some lines of 
Whittier's came into my head : — 

"Wherever through the Ages rise, 
The Altars of self sacrifice, 
Where Love it's arms has opened wide, 
And man for man has gladly died, 
I see the same white wings outspread, 
That hovered o'er the Master's head." 

December ioth. 

I said a few months ago that if the day should 
ever come when I thought it right to throw a stone 
I would admit as much. Well, that day has 
come, for not only did I think it right and neces- 
sary, but I contemplate doing it myself. 

I have been wondering for some time what we 
should do if we lose our case and the Government 
decides to give Mrs. Pankhurst and Mrs. Haver- 
field a month's imprisonment and drop the charges 
against all of us. It is the sort of thing this 
apology for a Government would do, as ninety-five 



128 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

women, all prepared to hunger strike, would be a 
large order for four or five over-worked wardresses 
and one doctor. 

Last night it suddenly occurred to me that the 
best plan would be to make a protest against the 
decision by breaking Government windows. They 
would have to imprison us then, and it could 
easily be managed with no injury to people and 
very little to property. Anyhow, I have decided 
that if they go to prison I for one will go with 
them. 

December ioth. 

I went yesterday to Mrs. Pankhurst's welcome 
home meeting in London. She has retvirned 
from America, where she seems to have had a very 
successful tour. 

The Albert Hall was full up, and as usual the 
audience was most enthusiastic. Mrs. Pankhurst 
informed us that her fine had been paid by someone 
anonymously, so she will not go to prison. I be- 
lieve the Government has got something to do 
with it, as in several cases lately Suffragettes' fines 
have been paid by someone unknown. Anyhow, 
I am glad on this occasion, for, as I surmised, they 
are going to withdraw the charges against all of 
us and proceed no further, though we lost the case 
in the higher Court. I have definitely decided to 
take part in the next deputation in February or 
March. I wonder what they will do then, as 
there will be many more women than even on 
June 29th last. 

January 24TH. 

I made a dreadful mistake to-day while working 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 129 

at this horrible General Election. Our policy is 
to keep the Liberal out, and it is quite wonderful 
how we do succeed in turning votes. The open- 
air meetings are so well attended, and one can see 
the crowd, which has often collected largely out of 
idle curiosity, gradually change its attitude to one 
of deep interest and attention. As a means of 
propaganda work this election policy is certainly 
most effective. 

I was distributing leaflets to the various people 
who passed, describing the treatment of women by 
the Liberal Government, and the various reasons 
for voting against them, and I handed some to a 
man whom I took to be one of the electors. He 
walked on a few steps, reading the contents. Then 
he came back to where I was standing. 

" Do you know who I am }" he asked. 

" No," I replied, feeling vaguely uncomfortable. 

" I am the Liberal candidate," he explained. 
" These are very interesting papers, but it seems a 
pity to waste them on me, since I am not in a posi- 
tion to vote against myself." And he held out 
the pamphlets. 

I took them in silence, feeling quite incapable of 
speech, and, as he walked away I gave them to a 
young man wearing the Unionist colours, who 
winked at me and said he'd vote for the women. 

What worries me is that most likely this Liberal 
candidate will get in to-morrow, in which case I 
shall be under the painful necessity of calling on 
him to ask him whether he will support the 
Woman's Cause by balloting in the coming Session 
of Parliament for the Women's Enfranchisement 
Bill. I have received a letter from Clement's Inn 



130 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

explaining that they want a Private Member's Bill 
to be introduced, and requesting me, as soon as 
the result of the poll is known, to personally inter- 
view the new M.P. and ask him this question. It 
is most important that a large number of favourable 
replies should be received, so of course I must do 
my best. The Bill, as given in the letter, reads 
as follows : — " That in all Acts relating to the 
qualification and registration of voters, or persons 
entitled or claiming to be registered, and to vote 
in the election of Members of Parliament, 
wherever words occur which import the masculine 
gender, the same shall be held to include women 
for all purposes connected with and having refer- 
ence to the right to be registered as voters, and to 
vote in such election; any law or usage to the 
contrary notwithstanding." 

It sounds a reasonable enough thing to ask, and 
if the Unionist candidate gets in I shall not mind 
doing so. I hope he will, but it seems doubtful 
in the extreme. 

January 26th. 

Really, this is too horrible. The Liberal candi- 
date has got in. What comfort is it to me to be 
told that the majority has been enormously reduced 
when the fact remains that to-morrow I have got to 
personally interview and ask a favour from a man 
who is pretty sure to remember that only two days 
ago I was working hard to make him lose his seat ? 
The position is an impossible one. Of course he 
will refuse to ballot for this Bill. It seems only a 
waste of time asking him about it, and I can think 
of nothing I should dislike doing more, but I have 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 131 

been asked to, and in the W.S.P.U. personal 
inclination counts for nothing. I have found his 
address in the Directory, and written a note saying 
that I am anxious to have a few moment's conver- 
sation with him on a matter of business, and would 
be much obliged if he would make an appointment 
to see me to-morrow or next day. One ray of 
hope remains. Perhaps he will refuse. In that 
case I shall have to write instead. It would be so 
much easier to write. Meanwhile I shall post this 
note and try not to think about it. 



January 27TH. 

His answer has come at last. Merely two lines 
hastily scribbled on half a sheet of paper, to the 
effect that he can see me this afternoon at 3.30. 
Really, this is very trying. It ;s nearly i o'clock 
now, and a woman is coming to tea with me, whom 
I know very slightly. I shall have to leave a 
message in case I should be late. 

I must write no more now, for the time is short. 
Dear me ! 3.30 and I have no idea where the house 
is even. This is worse than chalking pavements. 
I shall certainly drink something very strong at 
lunch, then I shall put on my new Suffragette hat; 
it is very becoming and militant-looking, so it 
gives me courage. I suppose I had better wear the 
"Votes for Women" badge; there must be no mis- 
taking what I have come about, and I shall take 
the letter from Clement's Inn with me; that will 
save a lot of explanation, but, oh, dear! what am 
I to say if he recognises me ? 



132 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

9 p.m. 

The interview was not half so trying as I had 
expected, and now that it is over I need do nothing 
further in the way of militant work till the next 
deputation. I shall briefly describe the events of 
this afternoon. 

I found the house after some difficulty, and rang 
the front door bell with my usual feeling of cold 
apprehension. The maid who answered it seemed 
extremely reluctant to admit me, though I ex- 
plained that I had an appointment for that hour 
and was expected. Perhaps my Suffragette hat 
and badge made her suspicious. 

Finally, asking me to wait in the hall, she went 
into an adjoining room, where she remained for 
what seemed to me quite a long time, in conver- 
sation with someone. A wild desire to leave the 
house overcame me, but I resisted it, and at last 
she returned with the information that her master 
would be able to see me in a few minutes, and 
would I wait in the study? 

Accordingly I followed her to the study, and 
remained there at least ten minutes longer, during 
which time I feverishly concocted suitable short 
speeches and opening remarks, while unconsciously 
I twisted and crushed in my hands the type- 
written letter I had brought with me. 

At last the door opened to admit the Liberal 
candidate. Of course he recognised me at once. 
I could see that the moment he looked at me, atid 
every idea I had on the question of Woman's 
Suffrage deserted me instantly. I just stood and 
looked at him, wondering vaguely whether I ought 
to shake hands with him or not. 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 133 

He waited a few moments for me to speak, and 
then said : " Won't you sit down ? " which I did, 
feeling less than ever able to say a word. 

He then observed that he was extremely busy. 
It was not a good opening. I smoothed out and 
handed to him the crushed remains of the letter, 
explaining that I had come to ask him to ballot for 
our Bill, and that I was very sorry to bother him 
and would not stay longer than I could help. 

He glanced at the contents of the letter and 
smiled. " You are a member of the W.S.P.U. 
— in other words, the militant section of the 
women Suffragists ^ " he asked. 

" Yes," I explained; " that is^hy I have come. 

Our work during the election has been " I 

stopped suddenly, and the new M.P. smiled again. 

" I know," he said, pleasantly. " You have 
been working to keep the Liberal out. On this 
occasion you have failed." 

I did not refer to -the fact that we had helped to 
reduce the majority considerably, but asked him 
whether he disapproved of militant methods. He 
replied that most certainly he did, and that women 
who employed them were obviously unfit to vote. 

This remark, while it took my breath away, gave 
me back the power of speech. " The only differ- 
ence between our methods and those of other 
Suffrage Societies," I said, " is that while they 
desire the vote and realise its importance, we are 
taking steps to secure it for them and for ourselves. 
In other words, we have undertaken to pay the 
price, and it is a very heavy one." 

" Indeed," he said, drily. " I imagine that you 
rather enjoy paying it than otherwise. Some people 



134 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

love excitement and notoriety." 

" You suppose," I said, angrily, " that we like 
standing on a lorry at a street corner arguing with 
a mixed crowd of the British electorate that we 
enjoy going to prison with common criminals and 
starving for days, that it is from choice that we 
interview newly-elected Members of Parliament in 
the forlorn hope of getting them to see that one 
and one make two." 

The M.P. smiled again. " I have no doubt," 
he remarked, " that you get as much pleasure out 
of the proceedings as do the British electorate, the 
prison officials, or the newly-elected M.P.'s," and 
he glanced at a clock on the mantelpiece. 

This was distinctly crushing, but in spite of 
myself I laughed. " You scored that time," I 
admitted, as I rose to my feet and held out my 
hand for the crumpled letter. " I must make a 
note of the fact. It is so seldom that an ' anti ' 
scores; they generally lose their temper." 

" But I am not an ' anti.' " 

" You are in favour of votes for women ? " 

" Certainly. I have always been in favour of 
it." 

" They all say that, but will you promise to 
ballot for the Bill.?" 

" Yes, I will promise." 

This reply was so unexpected that once more 
words almost failed me. "Thank you," I said; 
" I really am very much obliged. I will say good- 
bye now. I am sorry to have detained you so 
long." 

" It has been a pleasure," he said, solemnly, as 
he accompanied me to the door, which he opened 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 135 

for me to pass out. " I am glad that you decided 
to pay this price, and came to interview me." 

" So am I now," I replied, as we shook hands; 
" and what is more, I am glad that we failed 
yesterday." 

Once again the M.P. smiled. " Thank you," 
he said, simply. 

When I got home I found that my visitor had 
arrived. I apologised humbly, explaining that the 
duties of a militant Suffragette were exacting. 

" Don't discuss Woman's Suffrage with me, 
please," she implored, holding up her hands as if 
to ward off a blow. " You never will make me 
approve of militant methods, so there is no use 
talking. I quite agree with you that if women 
want votes they should have them, but I can't see 
that they are justified in kissing policemen." 

I decided not to discuss Woman's Suffrage. 

January 28th. 

In the Votes for Women paper to-day there is 
a letter by Lady Constance, describing her experi- 
ences in prison. She had disguised herself as a 
working woman and taken the name of Jane 
Warton, in order to escape the " special treat- 
ment " accorded her on both previous occasions by 
Herbert Gladstone on account of her rank. The 
result was that they did not take the trouble to 
examine her heart before letting her undergo the 
ordeal of forcible feeding. It is interesting in this 
connection to read in the " Memoirs of Prince 
Kropotkin " the following extracts : — 

" The horror of such (hunger) strikes seemed 
not to appeal to the gendarmes. At Karkoff the 



136 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

prostrated prisoners were tied up with ropes and 
artificially fed." The result of this treatment was 
that the Governor, General Kropotkin, was shot 
dead. The central prison, at which the first hunger 
strike, and consequent artificial feeding, took place, 
was under his orders. Further on in the book 
Prince Kropotkin says that " no Englishman 
would have tolerated this brutal treatment of 
prisoners." 

As I read Lady Constance's letter and remem- 
bered the writer as I saw her the other day in 
Edinburgh, a new sense of the wonderful love 
that this Movement has created in women came 
to me. She describes herself as physically a 
coward. I feel that I cannot better express my 
view of her conduct than by quoting as follows 
from what Mrs. Pethick Lawrence has written 
about her in to-day's paper. " Lady Constance 
Lytton was not thinking of Mr. Gladstone when 
she planned the conditions of her arrest and im- 
prisonment. She was thinking of Selina Martin, 
of Mrs. Leigh, of many other women who have 
endured direr and more long-drawn-out suffering 
than that even, which she was called upon eventu- 
ally to endure. She was thinking of great wrongs 
that are done in our police courts in the name of 
justice. She endured imprisonment, insult, and 
torture, that she might hasten the day when the 
dark stain of our present prison system should be 
wiped out of a cleaner civilisation. 

She wrote upon the wall of her prison cell the 
words of Thoreau : " Under a Government that 
imprisons any unjustly, the true place for a just 
man (or woman) is also in prison." 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 137 

The action of Lady Constance Lytton has a 
political bearing. It is a startling and significant 
event in the Movement for the emancipation of 
women. But it has very much more than a 
political significance. It has a profound human 
and moral significance. It is an action that will not 
be forgotten. Some day, not just now, but before 
very long, the world will understand it, and then 
it will be written in letters of gold upon the tablets 
of human history. 

In years to come this story of compassion and 
chivalry will be told in the schools to children yet 
unborn. And they will listen to it as we listened, 
when we were children, to the tale of the chival- 
rous knight, Sir Philip Sydney, when, self- 
oblivious, he passed the cup of water that had been 
raised to his lips to the dying soldier in the field, 
with the words : " His need is greater than mine." 
And many a woman child will say in her heart : 
" I, too, will be fearless and chivalrous and brave." 

As for Herbert Gladstone and the part he has 
played from the commencement in connection with 
this Movement, the sense of burning anger I used 
to have has gone, and my feeling for him is one of 
deep pity. Degrading and horrible as prison ex- 
perience must necessarily be for any woman who 
enters the fighting line now, I would rather experi- 
ence it, not only once, but half a dozen times, than 
be in the position of the Home Secretary to-day. 

February 2nd. 
I would like to copy down, for the sake of future 
reference, a letter which came out in yesterday's 
paper, and which may help to console some of the 



138 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

people who see in the prospect of Woman's Suffrage 
a danger to the nation. 

It is entitled " Woman's Suffrage in Austra- 
lasia." 

(To the Editor of the Daily Telegraph.) 

Sir, — In the face of Mr. Asquith's recent dictum 
at East Fife that Woman's Suffrage would be bad 
for the State and bad for the women, this week's 
mail has brought me firom Mr. Mark Cohen, one 
of the leading editors visiting last year's Imperial 
Press Conference, the copy of a resolution which 
was submitted by Mr. Deakin, and duly carried in 
the Commonwealth Parliament, on December 4th, 
" amid approving cheers from both sides of the 
House," viz. : — 

1 . That this House testifies to the fact that after 
sixteen years' experience of Woman's Suffrage in 
various parts of Australasia, and nine years' 
experience in the Commonwealth, the Reform has 
justified the hope of its supporters and falsified all 
the fears and prophecies of disaster voiced by its 
opponents. 

2. That, as foreseen by its advocates, its effects 
have been : (a) To gradually educate women to a 
sense of their responsibility in public affairs, (b) 
to give more prominence to social and domestic 
legislation. 

3. That Australasian experience convinces this 
House that to adopt Woman's Suffrage is simply 
to apply to the political sphere that principle of 
government that secures the best results in the 
domestic sphere : the mutual co-operation of men 
and women for the individual and general welfare. 

I submit that this testimony should weigh with 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 139 

serious and unprejudiced people, and should 
encourage those fighting in the great Cause of 
woman's enfranchisement. — Yours faithfully, 

B. BoRRMANN Wells. 
Similar resolutions have been passed in other 
places where Woman's Suffrage has been adopted, 
notably in Wyoming, as quoted by Lady Constance 
in her pamphlet " No Votes for Women." 

February 3RD. 

As I was out shopping this morning I noticed 
on a poster outside a newsagent's shop, " Suffra- 
gettes abandon Militant Tactics." I did not 
trouble to go in and buy a paper, because I prefer 
to wait and see the truth on Friday. I do not 
think it is at all likely to be true, anyhow as 
regards the next deputation, the date of which has 
been fixed for on or about March i st. I sincerely 
hope not, for I have made all arrangements to 
enable me to spare a month for prison before going 
abroad. 

It is interesting to notice how public opinion 
alters on this Suffrage question as time goes on. 
First of all people said we went to prison because 
we were paid for it. Then, when it was proved 
that that was not so, they said we liked prison, 
that it was only a luxurious detention, and the 
notoriety made it worth while. That was what was 
being said when I joined the Movement. When 
the hunger strike first started everyone said that 
though one woman might be found to do such a 
thing the others would not follow her example. 
However, they all did; not one failed. Then 
people began to say that Suffragettes behaved in a 



I40 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

disorderly way, and instead of submitting to the 
consequent imprisonment, refused to eat in order 
to be released. One writer in the Westminster 
Gazette even described it as a simple device for 
escaping punishment! 

The fact that every one of these women had 
submitted to this punishment before, some several 
times, was overlooked, as was also the " luxurious 
detention " argument, and the weakness of the 
Home Secretary was commented on. I would like 
to invite the writer of that article to try the experi- 
ment of this " simple device " for six days, and 
then to explain why, if the prisoners wished to 
escape punishment, they did not adopt the much 
simpler device of paying the fine. 

When the forcible reeding started, everyone 
said : " Now this will soon stop these ridiculous 
women. Not many will be found ready to submit 
to all that it entails for more than a day or two, if 
that." Nevertheless, every one of them did, 
though in at least one case it lasted for three months, 
and on their release, after they had been nursed 
back to some measure of health, they professed 
themselves ready to go again. The latest thing I 
have heard said is that it is a species of insanity. 
If this be so, the outlook for England is a serious 
one, for not only is insanity enormously and rapidly 
increasing, but it is spreading where it might least 
be expected to be found. 

February 7th. 

I have just received a letter from Clement's Inn 
to say that the deputation to the Prime Minister 
will not go in March. It has been decided to stop 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 141 

militant tactics for the present, while the Govern- 
ment is given a chance of showing whether they 
are now prepared to carry a measure recognising 
women's claim to the vote. 

Never has the Union been in such a strong 
position as to-day, both as regards funds and 
membership. Never have so many women volun- 
teered to join a deputation, ready and glad to suffer 
anything for the Cause. Yet now, because it 
seems advisable, under existing circumstances, at 
a word from the leaders of this wonderful Move- 
ment, all are ready to carry out instructions and 
wait. Personally my strongest feeling is one of 
horrible disappointment. I recognise this policy 
as a carefully considered tactical Movement, and a 
sign of strength, and later on perhaps I shall be 
glad, but to-day I find it impossible to overcome a 
deep sense of remorse that I, who am so strong 
and could have done it, should never have taken 
my place in prison beside these women. The 
chance will not come again, since I am going 
abroad. It sounds absurd to say that my eyes 
keep filling with tears as I write, because I cannot 
bear the thought that I will not suffer pain and 
starvation and imprisonment next month, yet so it 
is. I do not think I can write any more to-day. 

February iith. 

The time has come when I must make a final 
entry in my diary, for I shall soon be leaving this 
country, and packing must be attended to. For 
the present I shall be debarred by force of circum- 
stances from taking any active part in the Woman's 
Campaign, but the joy of victory will go with me. 



142 Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 

and I shall read with interest of the progress of 
the Movement. Bitterly as I shall regret all my 
life that I did not go to prison with these friends 
of mine, I shall always feel grateful that I was 
privileged for one short year to work with them, 
in however insignificant a way. 

I have learnt many things during the past year, 
among others the heroism which women are capable 
of. In reviewing the conduct of the pioneers of 
this Movement, and of those who have recently 
taken their part in the fighting line, even I, who 
admire them so passionately and love them for 
what I know them to be, am astonished. 

Most people, even the " antis," admit now that 
this Reform will come, and probably before very 
long, so one is often tempted to say : " Then, why 
not give it now, and stop any more of this need- 
less suffering ? " But I have learnt also that there 
is no such thing as needless suffering. We would 
not lose what this battle has given us of courage, 
self-confidence, unity, loyalty, and love. I per- 
ceive further that if Woman's Suffrage were never 
to come, it would have been worth while to have 
done these things and to have learnt to lose sight 
of self for the sake of a great ideal. The love, which 
is the motive power at the back of this Movement, 
is a wonderfiil thing. To have felt its influence 
makes one reverent. " Women," it has been said, 
" can suffer and sacrifice themselves for the sake 
of a man, but not for each other, or for a Cause." 
Surely this can never be said again. Now that 
we are learning what the Sisterhood of Woman 
means we catch glimpses of the Unity and 
Brotherhood of Man, which will surely come. 



Pages from Diary of a Militant Suffragette 143 

"when the new man and the new woman shall stand 
together unfettered and free. 

But I must cease theorising. It is a temptation 
to confide one's moods to a diary, particularly in 
the evening when thoughts form themselves more 
readily into words, but to-night my thoughts are 
sad, so I shall resist the temptation. As a poet 
says : — 

" Laugh, and the world laughs with you, 
Weep, and you weep alone." 

I shall therefore laugh, once again, as I record a 
conversation which I had to-day with an old 
gentleman. 

I decided to do a final day's work for the Cause 
by selling Votes for Women in the town. I find 
it easy now. The papers I was selling contained 
my life sentence of " No imprisonment for the 
Woman's Cause." I disposed of all the copies I 
had with me, and met with politeness and friendli- 
ness most of the time. One old gentleman, how- 
ever, who confessed that he had bought a paper 
simply out of curiosity paused to argue with me. 

He said that if women were accorded equal 
rights with men they would become unwomanly 
as an inevitable result. 

I am getting tired of quoting Australia, so I 
pointed out that the stage is the only place where 
women have equal rights with men in their pro- 
fession. " Yet is there any place," I asked, 
"where women retain their womanliness more 
than on the stage.'' Suppose a John Burns were 
to pass a law now that men must in future act 
women's parts as well as their own, as used to 
be the case not so very long ago on the plea that 



144 P'^S^^ h°'^ Diary of a MiUtant Suffragette 

the actress's place is in her home, what would the 
verdict of the public be? I am convinced that 
ten years after women have secured the vote it 
will sound quite as absurd to suggest that they 
Plight to be disfranchised on the ground of sex 
as to argue that the Married Woman's Property 
Act should be annulled, and the history of this 
agitation will be read with amazement and 
incredulity." 

The old gentleman hesitated. " It would never 
do for all women to go on the stage," he observed. 

" Of course not, because then there would be 
no audience, just as if we were aU Suffragettes 
there would be no critics. It takes all kinds to 
make a world." 

" Young woman," said the old gentleman, 
severely, " the best thing that you can do is to get 
married. You will find it more satisfactory than 
going on the stage, or fighting with policemen in 
the street." 

" I can't do that," I explained, " because I am 
married already. My husband is a Suffragist, and 
so are my two small sons." 

This was too much for my companion. He left 
without making any reply. 

I have decided to tear up the parts of my diary 
which do not bear upon Woman's Suffrage, and to 
keep the remainder, however disjointed and 
spasmodic, as a souvenir of the time I have spent 
in the ranks of the Purple, White, and Greenf 
since that memorable day when I first looked withi 
pity and surprise at a bright-faced brave girl selling ] 
papers at the corner of a street in the drizzling^ 
rain. 



